227508|t|Naloxone reverses the antihypertensive effect of clonidine.In unanesthetized, spontaneously hypertensive rats the decrease in blood pressureand heart rate produced by intravenous clonidine, 5 to 20 micrograms/kg, wasinhibited or reversed by nalozone, 0.2 to 2 mg/kg. The hypotensive effect of 100mg/kg alpha-methyldopa was also partially reversed by naloxone. Naloxone alone didnot affect either blood pressure or heart rate. In brain membranes fromspontaneously hypertensive rats clonidine, 10(-8) to 10(-5) M, did not influencestereoselective binding of [3H]-naloxone (8 nM), and naloxone, 10(-8) to 10(-4) M,did not influence clonidine-suppressible binding of [3H]-dihydroergocryptine (1 nM).These findings indicate that in spontaneously hypertensive rats the effects ofcentral alpha-adrenoceptor stimulation involve activation of opiate receptors. Asnaloxone and clonidine do not appear to interact with the same receptor site, theobserved functional antagonism suggests the release of an endogenous opiate byclonidine or alpha-methyldopa and the possible role of the opiate in the centralcontrol of sympathetic tone.
227508	CID	alpha-methyldopa	hypotensive

354896|t|Lidocaine-induced cardiac asystole.Intravenous administration of a single 50-mg bolus of lidocaine in a 67-year-oldman resulted in profound depression of the activity of the sinoatrial andatrioventricular nodal pacemakers. The patient had no apparent associated conditionswhich might have predisposed him to the development of bradyarrhythmias; and, thus,this probably represented a true idiosyncrasy to lidocaine.
354896	CID	Lidocaine	cardiac asystole

435349|t|Suxamethonium infusion rate and observed fasciculations. A dose-response study.Suxamethonium chloride (Sch) was administered i.v. to 36 adult males at six rates:0.25 mg s-1 to 20 mg s-1. The infusion was discontinued either when there was nomuscular response to tetanic stimulation of the ulnar nerve or when Sch 120 mg wasexceeded. Six additional patients received a 30-mg i.v. bolus dose. Fasciculationsin six areas of the body were scored from 0 to 3 and summated as a totalfasciculation score. The times to first fasciculation, twitch suppression andtetanus suppression were inversely related to the infusion rates. Fasciculations inthe six areas and the total fasciculation score were related directly to the rate ofinfusion. Total fasciculation scores in the 30-mg bolus group and the 5-mg s-1 and20-mg s-1 infusion groups were not significantly different.
435349	CID	Suxamethonium	fasciculations

603022|t|Galanthamine hydrobromide, a longer acting anticholinesterase drug, in thetreatment of the central effects of scopolamine (Hyoscine).Galanthamine hydrobromide, an anticholinesterase drug capable of penetrating theblood-brain barrier, was used in a patient demonstrating central effects ofscopolamine (hyoscine) overdosage. It is longer acting than physostigmine and isused in anaesthesia to reverse the non-depolarizing neuromuscular block. However,studies into the dose necessary to combating scopolamine intoxication are indicated.
603022	CID	scopolamine	overdosage

1378968|t|Effects of uninephrectomy and high protein feeding on lithium-induced chronicrenal failure in rats.Rats with lithium-induced nephropathy were subjected to high protein (HP) feeding,uninephrectomy (NX) or a combination of these, in an attempt to induce glomerularhyperfiltration and further progression of renal failure. Newborn female Wistar ratswere fed a lithium-containing diet (50 mmol/kg) for 8 weeks and then randomized tonormal diet, HP diet (40 vs. 19%), NX or HP+NX for another 8 weeks. Correspondingnon-lithium pretreated groups were generated. When comparing all lithium treatedversus non-lithium-treated groups, lithium caused a reduction in glomerularfiltration rate (GFR) without significant changes in effective renal plasma flow (asdetermined by a marker secreted into the proximal tubules) or lithium clearance.Consequently, lithium pretreatment caused a fall in filtration fraction and anincrease in fractional Li excretion. Lithium also caused proteinuria and systolichypertension in absence of glomerulosclerosis. HP failed to accentuante progressionof renal failure and in fact tended to increase GFR and decrease plasma creatininelevels in lithium pretreated rats. NX caused an additive deterioration in GFR which,however, was ameliorated by HP. NX+HP caused a further rise in blood pressure inLi-pretreated rats. The results indicate that Li-induced nephropathy, even when theGFR is only modestly reduced, is associated with proteinuria and arterial systolichypertension. In this model of chronic renal failure the decline in GFR is notaccompanied by a corresponding fall in effective renal plasma flow, which may be thefunctional expression of the formation of nonfiltrating atubular glomeruli. Thefractional reabsorption of tubular fluid by the proximal tubules is reduced, leavingthe distal delivery unchanged.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1378968	CID	lithium	hypertension
1378968	CID	lithium	proteinuria
1378968	CID	lithium	chronic renal failure

1420741|t|Treatment of Crohn's disease with fusidic acid: an antibiotic withimmunosuppressive properties similar to cyclosporin.Fusidic acid is an antibiotic with T-cell specific immunosuppressive effectssimilar to those of cyclosporin. Because of the need for the development of newtreatments for Crohn's disease, a pilot study was undertaken to estimate thepharmacodynamics and tolerability of fusidic acid treatment in chronic active,therapy-resistant patients. Eight Crohn's disease patients were included.Fusidic acid was administered orally in a dose of 500 mg t.d.s. and the treatmentwas planned to last 8 weeks. The disease activity was primarily measured by amodified individual grading score. Five of 8 patients (63%) improved during fusidicacid treatment: 3 at two weeks and 2 after four weeks. There were no seriousclinical side effects, but dose reduction was required in two patients because ofnausea. Biochemically, an increase in alkaline phosphatases was noted in 5 of 8cases (63%), and the greatest increases were seen in those who had elevated levelsprior to treatment. All reversed to pre-treatment levels after cessation oftreatment. The results of this pilot study suggest that fusidic acid may be ofbenefit in selected chronic active Crohn's disease patients in whomconventional treatment is ineffective. Because there seems to exist a scientificrationale for the use of fusidic acid at the cytokine level in inflammatory boweldisease, we suggest that the role of this treatment should be further investigated.
1420741	CID	fusidic acid	nausea

1601297|t|Electrocardiographic evidence of myocardial injury in psychiatrically hospitalizedcocaine abusers.The electrocardiograms (ECG) of 99 cocaine-abusing patients were compared with theECGs of 50 schizophrenic controls. Eleven of the cocaine abusers and none of thecontrols had ECG evidence of significant myocardial injury defined as myocardialinfarction, ischemia, and bundle branch block.
1601297	CID	cocaine	myocardial infarction
1601297	CID	cocaine	bundle branch block

1967484|t|Sulpiride-induced tardive dystonia.Sulpiride is a selective D2-receptor antagonist with antipsychotic andantidepressant properties. Although initially thought to be free of extrapyramidalside effects, sulpiride-induced tardive dyskinesia and parkinsonism have beenreported occasionally. We studied a 37-year-old man who developed persistentsegmental dystonia within 2 months after starting sulpiride therapy. We could notfind any previous reports of sulpiride-induced tardive dystonia.
1967484	CID	Sulpiride	tardive dystonia

2234245|t|Ocular and auditory toxicity in hemodialyzed patients receiving desferrioxamine.During an 18-month period of study 41 hemodialyzed patients receivingdesferrioxamine (10-40 mg/kg BW/3 times weekly) for the first time were monitoredfor detection of audiovisual toxicity. 6 patients presented clinical symptoms ofvisual or auditory toxicity. Moreover, detailed ophthalmologic and audiologicstudies disclosed abnormalities in 7 more asymptomatic patients. Visual toxicity wasof retinal origin and was characterized by a tritan-type dyschromatopsy, sometimesassociated with a loss of visual acuity and pigmentary retinal deposits. Auditorytoxicity was characterized by a mid- to high-frequency neurosensorial hearing lossand the lesion was of the cochlear type. Desferrioxamine withdrawal resulted in acomplete recovery of visual function in 1 patient and partial recovery in 3, and acomplete reversal of hearing loss in 3 patients and partial recovery in 3. Thistoxicity appeared in patients receiving the higher doses of desferrioxamine orcoincided with the normalization of ferritin or aluminium serum levels. The dataindicate that audiovisual toxicity is not an infrequent complication in hemodialyzedpatients receiving desferrioxamine. Periodical audiovisual monitoring should beperformed on hemodialyzed patients receiving the drug in order to detect adverseeffects as early as possible.
2234245	CID	desferrioxamine	pigmentary retinal deposits
2234245	CID	desferrioxamine	Ocular toxicity
2234245	CID	desferrioxamine	neurosensorial hearing loss

2385256|t|Myasthenia gravis presenting as weakness after magnesium administration.We studied a patient with no prior history of neuromuscular disease who becamevirtually quadriplegic after parenteral magnesium administration for preeclampsia.The serum magnesium concentration was 3.0 mEq/L, which is usually well tolerated.The magnesium was stopped and she recovered over a few days. While she was weak,2-Hz repetitive stimulation revealed a decrement without significant facilitation atrapid rates or after exercise, suggesting postsynaptic neuromuscular blockade. Afterher strength returned, repetitive stimulation was normal, but single fiber EMGrevealed increased jitter and blocking. Her acetylcholine receptor antibody levelwas markedly elevated. Although paralysis after magnesium administration has beendescribed in patients with known myasthenia gravis, it has not previously beenreported to be the initial or only manifestation of the disease. Patients who areunusually sensitive to the neuromuscular effects of magnesium should be suspected ofhaving an underlying disorder of neuromuscular transmission.
2385256	CID	magnesium	Myasthenia gravis

2505783|t|Chloroacetaldehyde and its contribution to urotoxicity during treatment withcyclophosphamide or ifosfamide. An experimental study/short communication.Based on clinical data, indicating that chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is an importantmetabolite of oxazaphosphorine cytostatics, an experimental study was carried out inorder to elucidate the role of CAA in the development of hemorrhagic cystitis. Thedata demonstrate that CAA after i.v. administration does not contribute to bladderdamage. When instilled directly into the bladder, CAA exerts urotoxic effects, itis, however, susceptible to detoxification with mesna.
2505783	CID	Chloroacetaldehyde	cystitis
2505783	CID	Chloroacetaldehyde	hemorrhagic

2515254|t|Source of pain and primitive dysfunction in migraine: an identical site?Twenty common migraine patients received a one sided frontotemporal application ofnitroglycerin (10 patients) or placebo ointment (10 patients) in a double blindstudy. Early onset migraine attacks were induced by nitroglycerin in seven out of 10patients versus no patient in the placebo group. Subsequently 20 migraine patients,who developed an early onset attack with frontotemporal nitroglycerin, received thedrug in a second induction test at other body areas. No early onset migraine wasobserved. Thus the migraine-inducing effect of nitroglycerin seems to depend ondirect stimulation of the habitual site of pain, suggesting that the frontotemporalregion is of crucial importance in the development of a migraine crisis. This is notconsistent with a CNS origin of migraine attack.
2515254	CID	nitroglycerin	migraine

2572625|t|Clotiazepam-induced acute hepatitis.We report the case of a patient who developed acute hepatitis with extensivehepatocellular necrosis, 7 months after the onset of administration of clotiazepam,a thienodiazepine derivative. Clotiazepam withdrawal was followed by promptrecovery. The administration of several benzodiazepines, chemically related toclotiazepam, did not interfere with recovery and did not induce any relapse ofhepatitis. This observation shows that clotiazepam can induce acute hepatitis andsuggests that there is no cross hepatotoxicity between clotiazepam and severalbenzodiazepines.
2572625	CID	Clotiazepam	hepatitis

2632720|t|Arterial hypertension as a complication of prolonged ketoconazole treatment.Two of 14 patients with Cushing's syndrome treated on a long-term basis withketoconazole developed sustained hypertension. In both cases normal plasma andurinary free cortisol levels had been achieved following ketoconazole therapy, yetcontinuous blood pressure monitoring demonstrated hypertension 31 (patient 1) and 52weeks (patient 2) after treatment. In patient 1, plasma levels ofdeoxycorticosterone and 11-deoxycortisol were elevated. In patient 2, in addition toan increase in both deoxycorticosterone and 11-deoxycortisol levels, plasmaaldosterone values were raised, with a concomitant suppression of renin levels. Ourfindings show that long-term treatment with high doses of ketoconazole may induceenzyme blockade leading to mineralocorticoid-related hypertension.
2632720	CID	ketoconazole	hypertension

2670794|t|Effects of an inhibitor of angiotensin converting enzyme (Captopril) on pulmonaryand renal insufficiency due to intravascular coagulation in the rat.Induction of intravascular coagulation and inhibition of fibrinolysis by injectionof thrombin and tranexamic acid (AMCA) in the rat gives rise to pulmonary and renalinsufficiency resembling that occurring after trauma or sepsis in man. Injection ofCaptopril (1 mg/kg), an inhibitor of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), reducedboth pulmonary and renal insufficiency in this rat model. The lung weights werelower and PaO2 was improved in rats given this enzyme-blocking agent. The contentsof albumin in the lungs were not changed, indicating that Captopril did notinfluence the extravasation of protein. Renal damage as reflected by an increase inserum urea and in kidney weight was prevented by Captopril. The amount of fibrin inthe kidneys was also considerably lower than in animals which received thrombin andAMCA alone. It is suggested that the effects of Captopril on the lungs may beattributable to a vasodilatory effect due to a reduction in the circulating level ofAngiotension II and an increase in prostacyclin (secondary to an increase inbradykinin). Captopril may, by the same mechanism, reduce the increase in glomerularfiltration that is known to occur after an injection of thrombin, therebydiminishing the aggregation of fibrin monomers in the glomeruli, with the resultthat less fibrin will be deposited and thus less kidney damage will be produced.
2670794	CID	tranexamic acid	intravascular coagulation

2696505|t|A randomized comparison of labetalol and nitroprusside for induced hypotension.In a randomized study, labetalol-induced hypotension and nitroprusside-inducedhypotension were compared in 20 patients (10 in each group) scheduled for majororthopedic procedures. Each patient was subjected to an identical anestheticprotocol and similar drug-induced reductions in mean arterial blood pressure (BP)(50 to 55 mmHg). Nitroprusside infusion was associated with a significant (p lessthan 0.05) increase in heart rate and cardiac output; rebound hypertension wasobserved in three patients after discontinuation of nitroprusside. Labetaloladministration was not associated with any of these findings. Arterial PO2 decreasedin both groups. It was concluded that labetalol offers advantages overnitroprusside.
2696505	CID	nitroprusside	hypotension
2696505	CID	nitroprusside	increase in heart rate and cardiac output
2696505	CID	labetalol	hypotension

2924746|t|Chronic carbamazepine treatment in the rat: efficacy, toxicity, and effect onplasma and tissue folate concentrations.Folate depletion has often been a problem in chronic antiepileptic drug (AED)therapy. Carbamazepine (CBZ), a commonly used AED, has been implicated in someclinical studies. A rat model was developed to examine the effects of chronic CBZtreatment on folate concentrations in the rat. In the course of developing thismodel, a common vehicle, propylene glycol, by itself in high doses, was found toexhibit protective properties against induced seizures and inhibited weight gain.Seizures induced by hexafluorodiethyl ether (HFDE) were also found to be a moresensitive measure of protection by CBZ than seizures induced by maximal electroshock(MES). Oral administration of CBZ as an aqueous suspension every 8 h at a dose of250 mg/kg was continuously protective against HFDE-induced seizures and wasminimally toxic as measured by weight gain over 8 weeks of treatment. The CBZ levelsmeasured in plasma and brain of these animals, however, were below those normallyconsidered protective. This treatment with CBZ had no apparent adverse effect onfolate concentrations in the rat, and, indeed, the folate concentration increased inliver after 6 weeks of treatment and in plasma at 8 weeks of treatment.
2924746	CID	hexafluorodiethyl ether	seizures

2951327|t|Inhibition of sympathoadrenal activity by atrial natriuretic factor in dogs.In six conscious, trained dogs, maintained on a normal sodium intake of 2 to 4mEq/kg/day, sympathetic activity was assessed as the release rate of norepinephrineand epinephrine during 15-minute i.v. infusions of human alpha-atrial natriureticfactor. Mean arterial pressure (as a percentage of control +/- SEM) duringrandomized infusions of 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, or 1.0 microgram/kg/min was 99 +/- 1, 95 +/-1 (p less than 0.05), 93 +/- 1 (p less than 0.01), or 79 +/- 6% (p less than 0.001),respectively, but no tachycardia and no augmentation of the norepinephrine releaserate (up to 0.3 microgram/kg/min) were observed, which is in contrast to comparablehypotension induced by hydralazine or nitroglycerin. The release rate of epinephrine(control, 6.7 +/- 0.6 ng/kg/min) declined immediately during infusions of atrialnatriuretic factor to a minimum of 49 +/- 5% of control (p less than 0.001) during0.1 microgram/kg/min and to 63 +/- 5% (0.1 greater than p greater than 0.05) or 95+/- 13% (not significant) during 0.3 or 1.0 microgram/kg/min. Steady state arterialplasma concentrations of atrial natriuretic factor were 39 +/- 10 pg/ml (n = 6)during infusions of saline and 284 +/- 24 pg/ml (n = 6) and 1520 +/- 300 pg/ml (n =9) during 0.03 and 0.1 microgram/kg/min infusions of the factor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATEDAT 250 WORDS)
2951327	CID	nitroglycerin	hypotension
2951327	CID	hydralazine	hypotension

3192036|t|Death from chemotherapy in gestational trophoblastic disease.Multiple cytotoxic drug administration is the generally accepted treatment ofpatients with a high-risk stage of choriocarcinoma. Based on this principle a27-year old woman, classified as being in the high-risk group (Goldstein andBerkowitz score: 11), was treated with multiple cytotoxic drugs. The multiple drugschema consisted of: Etoposide 16.213, Methotrexate, Cyclophosphamide, Actomycin-D,and Cisplatin. On the first day of the schedule, moderate high doses ofMethotrexate, Etoposide and Cyclophosphamide were administered. Within 8 hours afterinitiation of therapy the patient died with a clinical picture resembling massivepulmonary obstruction due to choriocarcinomic tissue plugs, probably originatingfrom the uterus. Formation of these plugs was probably due to extensive tumornecrosis at the level of the walls of the major uterine veins, which resulted in anopen exchange of tumor plugs to the vascular spaces; decrease in tumor tissuecoherence secondary to chemotherapy may have further contributed to the formation oftumor emboli. In view of the close time association between the start ofchemotherapy and the acute onset of massive embolism other explanations, such asspontaneous necrosis, must be considered less likely. Patients with large pelvictumor loads are, according to existing classifications, at high risk to die and todevelop drug resistance. Notwithstanding these facts our findings suggest that thesepatients might benefit from relatively mild initial treatment, especially true forpatients not previously exposed to this drug. Close observation of the responsestatus both clinically and with beta-hCG values may indicate whether and when moreagressive combination chemotherapy should be started.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250WORDS)
3192036	CID	Etoposide	pulmonary obstruction
3192036	CID	Methotrexate	pulmonary obstruction
3192036	CID	Cyclophosphamide	pulmonary obstruction

3409645|t|Sexual dysfunction among patients with arthritis.The relationship of arthritis and sexual dysfunction was investigated among 169patients with rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and spondyloarthropathy, 130 ofwhom were pair-matched to controls. Assessments of marital happiness and depressedmood were also made using the CES-D and the Azrin Marital Happiness Scale (AMHS).Sexual dysfunctions were found to be common among patients and controls, themajority in both groups reporting one or more dysfunctions. Impotence was morecommon among male patients than controls and was found to be associated withco-morbidity and the taking of methotrexate. Depressed mood was more common amongpatients and was associated with certain sexual difficulties, but not withimpotence. Marital unhappiness, as indicated by AMHS scores, was not associated witharthritis but was associated with sexual dysfunction, sexual dissatisfaction andbeing female.
3409645	CID	methotrexate	Impotence

3412544|t|Does paracetamol cause urothelial cancer or renal papillary necrosis?The risk of developing renal papillary necrosis or cancer of the renal pelvis,ureter or bladder associated with consumption of either phenacetin or paracetamolwas calculated from data acquired by questionnaire from 381 cases and 808 controls.The risk of renal papillary necrosis was increased nearly 20-fold by consumption ofphenacetin, which also increased the risk for cancer of the renal pelvis and bladderbut not for ureteric cancer. By contrast, we were unable to substantiate anincreased risk from paracetamol consumption for renal papillary necrosis or any ofthese cancers although there was a suggestion of an association with cancer of theureter.
3412544	CID	phenacetin	renal papillary necrosis
3412544	CID	phenacetin	cancer of the bladder
3412544	CID	phenacetin	cancer of the renal pelvis

3425586|t|Dapsone-associated Heinz body hemolytic anemia in a Cambodian woman withhemoglobin E trait.A Cambodian woman with hemoglobin E trait (AE) and leprosy developed a Heinz bodyhemolytic anemia while taking a dose of dapsone (50 mg/day) not usually associatedwith clinical hemolysis. Her red blood cells (RBCs) had increased incubated Heinzbody formation, decreased reduced glutathione (GSH), and decreased GSH stability.The pentose phosphate shunt activity of the dapsone-exposed AE RBCs was increasedcompared to normal RBCs. Although the AE RBCs from an individual not taking dapsonehad increased incubated Heinz body formation, the GSH content and GSH stability werenormal. The pentose phosphate shunt activity of the non-dapsone-exposed AE RBCs wasdecreased compared to normal RBCs. Thus, AE RBCs appear to have an increasedsensitivity to oxidant stress both in vitro and in vivo, since dapsone does notcause hemolytic anemia at this dose in hematologically normal individuals. Given theinflux of Southeast Asians into the United States, oxidant medications should beused with caution, especially if an infection is present, in individuals of ethnicbackgrounds that have an increased prevalence of hemoglobin E.
3425586	CID	Dapsone	hemolytic anemia

3437726|t|Severe complications of antianginal drug therapy in a patient identified as a poormetabolizer of metoprolol, propafenone, diltiazem, and sparteine.A 47-year-old patient suffering from coronary artery disease was admitted to theCCU in shock with III. AV block, severe hypotension, and impairment of ventricularfunction. One week prior to admission a therapy with standard doses of metoprolol(100 mg t.i.d. and then 100 mg b.i.d.) had been initiated. Two days before admissiondiltiazem (60 mg b.i.d.) was prescribed in addition. Analyses of a blood samplerevealed unusually high plasma concentrations of metoprolol (greater than 3000ng/ml) and diltiazem (526 ng/ml). The patient recovered within 1 week followingdiscontinuation of antianginal therapy. Three months later the patient was exposedto a single dose of metoprolol, diltiazem, propafenone (since he had received thisdrug in the past), and sparteine (as a probe for the debrisoquine/sparteine typepolymorphism of oxidative drug metabolism). It was found that he was a poormetabolizer of all four drugs, indicating that their metabolism is under the samegenetic control. Therefore, patients belonging to the poor-metabolizer phenotype ofsparteine/debrisoquine polymorphism in drug metabolism, which constitutes 6.4% ofthe German population, may experience adverse drug reactions when treated withstandard doses of one of these drugs alone. Moreover, the coadministration of thesefrequently used drugs is expected to be especially harmful in this subgroup ofpatients.
3437726	CID	diltiazem	hypotension
3437726	CID	diltiazem	impairment of ventricular function
3437726	CID	metoprolol	impairment of ventricular function
3437726	CID	metoprolol	hypotension
3437726	CID	diltiazem	AV block
3437726	CID	metoprolol	AV block

3693336|t|Triazolam-induced brief episodes of secondary mania in a depressed patient.Large doses of triazolam repeatedly induced brief episodes of mania in a depressedelderly woman. Features of organic mental disorder (delirium) were not present.Manic excitement was coincident with the duration of action of triazolam. Thepossible contribution of the triazolo group to changes in affective status isdiscussed.
3693336	CID	Triazolam	mania

3780846|t|On the mechanisms of the development of tolerance to the muscular rigidityproduced by morphine in rats.The development of tolerance to the muscular rigidity produced by morphine wasstudied in rats. Saline-pretreated controls given a test dose of morphine (20 mg/kgi.p.) showed a pronounced rigidity recorded as tonic activity in the electromyogram.Rats treated for 11 days with morphine and withdrawn for 36-40 h showed differencesin the development of tolerance: about half of the animals showed a rigidity afterthe test dose of morphine that was not significantly less than in the controls andwere akinetic (A group). The other rats showed a strong decrease in the rigidity andthe occurrence of stereotyped (S) licking and/or gnawing in presence of akinetic orhyperkinetic (K) behaviour (AS/KS group), suggesting signs of dopaminergicactivation. The rigidity was considerably decreased in both groups after 20days' treatment. In a further series of experiments, haloperidol (0.2 mg/kgi.p.) was used in order to block the dopaminergic activation and to estimate thereal degree of the tolerance to the rigidity without any dopaminergic interference.Haloperidol enhanced the rigidity in the A group. However, the level in the AS/KSgroup remained considerably lower than in the A group. The results suggest thatrigidity, which is assumed to be due to an action of morphine in the striatum, canbe antagonized by another process leading to dopaminergic activation in thestriatum. Nevertheless, there occurs some real tolerance to this effect. The rapidalternations of rigidity and the signs of dopaminergic activation observed in theanimals of the AS/KS group might be due to rapid shifts in the predominance ofvarious DA-innervated structures.
3780846	CID	haloperidol	muscular rigidity
3780846	CID	morphine	muscular rigidity
3780846	CID	morphine	hyperkinetic
3780846	CID	morphine	akinetic

3800626|t|Compression neuropathy of the radial nerve due to pentazocine-induced fibrousmyopathy.Fibrous myopathy is a common, well-known side effect of repeated pentazocineinjection. However, compression neuropathy due to fibrotic muscle affected bypentazocine-induced myopathy has not previously been reported. In a 37-year-oldwoman with documented pentazocine-induced fibrous myopathy of triceps and deltoidmuscles bilaterally and a three-week history of right wrist drop, electrodiagnosticexamination showed a severe but partial lesion of the right radial nerve distal tothe branches to the triceps, in addition to the fibrous myopathy. Surgery revealedthe right radial nerve to be severely compressed by the densely fibrotic lateralhead of the triceps. Decompression and neurolysis were performed with goodsubsequent recovery of function.
3800626	CID	pentazocine	fibrous myopathy
3800626	CID	pentazocine	fibrous myopathy
3800626	CID	pentazocine	neuropathy of the radial nerve
3800626	CID	pentazocine	Compression neuropathy

3827439|t|Recurrent reversible acute renal failure from amphotericin.A patient with cryptogenic cirrhosis and disseminated sporotrichosis developedacute renal failure immediately following the administration of amphotericin B onfour separate occasions. The abruptness of the renal failure and its reversibilitywithin days suggests that there was a functional component to the renal dysfunction.We propose that amphotericin, in the setting of reduced effective arterial volume,may activate tubuloglomerular feedback, thereby contributing to acute renal failure.
3827439	CID	amphotericin	acute renal failure

3997294|t|Pneumonitis with pleural and pericardial effusion and neuropathy during amiodaronetherapy.A patient with sinuatrial disease and implanted pacemaker was treated withamiodarone (maximum dose 1000 mg, maintenance dose 800 mg daily) for 10 months, forcontrol of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. He developed pneumonitis, pleural andpericardial effusions, and a predominantly proximal motor neuropathy. Immediate butgradual improvement followed withdrawal of amiodarone and treatment withprednisolone. Review of this and previously reported cases indicates the need forearly diagnosis of amiodarone pneumonitis, immediate withdrawal of amiodarone, andprompt but continued steroid therapy to ensure full recovery.
3997294	CID	amiodarone	pericardial effusion
3997294	CID	amiodarone	proximal motor neuropathy
3997294	CID	amiodarone	pleural effusion
3997294	CID	amiodarone	pneumonitis

4071154|t|Indomethacin-induced renal insufficiency: recurrence on rechallenge.We have reported a case of acute oliguric renal failure with hyperkalemia in apatient with cirrhosis, ascites, and cor pulmonale after indomethacin therapy.Prompt restoration of renal function followed drug withdrawal, while re-exposure toa single dose of indomethacin caused recurrence of acute reversible oliguria. Ourcase supports the hypothesis that endogenous renal prostaglandins play a role in themaintenance of renal blood flow when circulating plasma volume is diminished. Sincenonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents interfere with this compensatory mechanism andmay cause acute renal failure, they should be used with caution in such patients.
4071154	CID	Indomethacin	hyperkalemia
4071154	CID	Indomethacin	oliguria
4071154	CID	Indomethacin	acute renal failure
4071154	CID	Indomethacin	cirrhosis
4071154	CID	Indomethacin	ascites
4071154	CID	Indomethacin	cor pulmonale

6103707|t|Comparison of the subjective effects and plasma concentrations following oral andi.m. administration of flunitrazepam in volunteers.Flunitrazepam 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg was given by the oral or i.m. routes to groups ofvolunteers and its effects compared. Plasma concentrations of the drug wereestimated by gas-liquid chromatography, in a smaller number of the subjects. Themost striking effect was sedation which increased with the dose, 2 mg producing deepsleep although the subjects could still be aroused. The effects of i.m.administration were apparent earlier and sometimes lasted longer than thosefollowing oral administration. Dizziness was less marked than sedation, butincreased with the dose. There was pain on i.m. injection of flunitrazepamsignificantly more often than with isotonic saline. Plasma concentrations variedwith dose and route and corresponded qualitatively with the subjective effects. Thedrug was still present in measurable quantities after 24 h even with the smallestdose.
6103707	CID	flunitrazepam	Dizziness
6103707	CID	flunitrazepam	pain

6229975|t|Changes in heart size during long-term timolol treatment after myocardialinfarction.The effect of long-term timolol treatment on heart size after myocardialinfarction was evaluated by X-ray in a double-blind study including 241 patients(placebo 126, timolol 115). The follow-up period was 12 months. The timolol-treatedpatients showed a small but significant increase in heart size from baseline incontrast to a decrease in the placebo group. These differences may be caused bytimolol-induced bradycardia and a compensatory increase in end-diastolic volume. Thetimolol-related increase in heart size was observed only in patients with normal andborderline heart size. In patients with cardiomegaly, the increase in heart size wassimilar in both groups. After re-infarction, heart size increased in the placebogroup and remained unchanged in the timolol group.
6229975	CID	timolol	cardiomegaly

6286738|t|Vitamin D3 toxicity in dairy cows.Large parenteral doses of vitamin D3 (15 to 17.5 x 10(6) IU vitamin D3) wereassociated with prolonged hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, and large increases ofvitamin D3 and its metabolites in the blood plasma of nonlactating nonpregnant andpregnant Jersey cows. Calcium concentrations 1 day postpartum were higher in cowstreated with vitamin D3 about 32 days prepartum (8.8 mg/100 ml) than in control cows(5.5 mg/100 ml). None of the cows treated with vitamin D3 showed signs of milk feverduring the peripartal period; however, 22% of the control cows developed clinicalsigns of milk fever during this period. Signs of vitamin D3 toxicity were notobserved in nonlactating nonpregnant cows; however, pregnant cows commonly developedsevere signs of vitamin D3 toxicity and 10 of 17 cows died. There was widespreadmetastatic calcification in the cows that died. Because of the extreme toxicity ofvitamin D3 in pregnant Jersey cows and the low margin of safety between doses ofvitamin D3 that prevent milk fever and doses that induce milk fever, we concludedthat vitamin D3 cannot be used practically to prevent milk fever when injectedseveral weeks prepartum.
6286738	CID	Vitamin D3	hypercalcemia
6286738	CID	Vitamin D3	hyperphosphatemia

6287825|t|Diseases of peripheral nerves as seen in the Nigerian African.The anatomical and aetiological diagnoses of peripheral nerve disease excludingits primary benign and malignant disorders, as seen in 358 Nigerians are presented.There is a male preponderance and the peak incidence is in the fourth decade.Sensori-motor neuropathy was the commonest presentation (50%). Guillain-Barrsyndrome was the commonest identifiable cause (15.6%), accounting for half of thecases with motor neuropathy. Peripheral neuropathy due to nutritional deficiency ofthiamine and riboflavin was common (10.1%) and presented mainly as sensory andsensori-motor neuropathy. Diabetes mellitus was the major cause of autonomicneuropathy. Isoniazid was the most frequent agent in drug-induced neuropathy.Migraine (20%) was not an uncommon cause of cranial neuropathy although malignanciesarising from the reticuloendothelial system or related structures of the head andneck were more frequent (26%). In 26.5% of all the cases, the aetiology of theneuropathy was undetermined. Heredofamilial and connective tissue disorders wererare. Some of the factors related to the clinical presentation and pathogenesis ofthe neuropathies are briefly discussed.
6287825	CID	riboflavin	Diseases of peripheral nerves
6287825	CID	thiamine	Diseases of peripheral nerves
6287825	CID	Isoniazid	Diseases of peripheral nerves

6386793|t|A double-blind study of the efficacy and safety of dothiepin hydrochloride in thetreatment of major depressive disorder.In a 6-week double-blind parallel treatment study, dothiepin and amitriptylinewere compared to placebo in the treatment of 33 depressed outpatients. Dothiepin andamitriptyline were equally effective in alleviating the symptoms of depressiveillness, and both were significantly superior to placebo. The overall incidence ofside effects and the frequency and severity of blurred vision, dry mouth, anddrowsiness were significantly less with dothiepin than with amitriptyline. Dothiepinalso produced fewer CNS and cardiovascular effects. There were no clinicallyimportant changes in laboratory parameters. Dothiepin thus was found to be aneffective antidepressant drug associated with fewer side effects than amitriptylinein the treatment of depressed outpatients.
6386793	CID	amitriptyline	blurred vision
6386793	CID	amitriptyline	dry mouth

6387529|t|Behavioral effects of diazepam and propranolol in patients with panic disorder andagoraphobia.The effects of oral doses of diazepam (single dose of 10 mg and a median dose of30 mg/day for 2 weeks) and propranolol (single dose of 80 mg and a median dose of240 mg/day for 2 weeks) on psychological performance of patients with panicdisorders and agoraphobia were investigated in a double-blind, randomized andcrossover design. Both drugs impaired immediate free recall but the decrease wasgreater for diazepam than propranolol. Delayed free recall was also impaired but thetwo drugs did not differ. Patients tapped faster after propranolol than diazepam andthey were more sedated after diazepam than propranolol. After 2 weeks of treatment,patients tested 5-8 h after the last dose of medication did not show any decrementof performance. These results are similar to those previously found in healthysubjects. Accumulation of drugs was not reflected in prolonged behavioralimpairment.
6387529	CID	propranolol	impaired immediate free recall
6387529	CID	diazepam	impaired immediate free recall

6692345|t|Effect of aspirin on N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide-inducedepithelial proliferation in the urinary bladder and forestomach of the rat.The co-administration of aspirin withN-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide (FANFT) to rats resulted in a reducedincidence of FANFT-induced bladder carcinomas but a concomitant induction offorestomach tumors. An autoradiographic study was performed on male F-344 rats feddiet containing FANFT at a level of 0.2% and/or aspirin at a level of 0.5% toevaluate the effect of aspirin on the increased cell proliferation induced by FANFTin the forestomach and bladder. FANFT-induced cell proliferation in the bladder wassignificantly suppressed by aspirin co-administration after 4 weeks but not after 12weeks. In the forestomach, and also in the liver, aspirin did not affect theFANFT-induced increase in labeling index. The present results are consistent withthe carcinogenicity experiment suggesting that different mechanisms are involved inFANFT carcinogenesis in the bladder and forestomach, and that aspirin's effecton FANFT in the forestomach is not due to an irritant effect associated withincreased cell proliferation. Also, there appears to be an adaptation by the rats tothe chronic ingestion of aspirin.
6692345	CID	N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide	bladder carcinomas
6692345	CID	N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide	forestomach tumors

6773726|t|Provocation of postural hypotension by nitroglycerin in diabetic autonomicneuropathy?The effect of nitroglycerin on heart rate and systolic blood pressure was comparedin 5 normal subjects, 12 diabetic subjects without autonomic neuropathy, and 5diabetic subjects with autonomic neuropathy. The magnitude and time course of theincrease in heart rate and the decrease in systolic blood pressure afternitroglycerin were similar in the normal and diabetic subjects without autonomicneuropathy, whereas a lesser increase in heart rate and a greater decrease insystolic blood pressure occurred in the diabetic subjects with autonomic neuropathy.It is therefore suggested that caution should be exercised when prescribingvasodilator drugs in diabetic patients, particularly those with autonomicneuropathy.
6773726	CID	nitroglycerin	hypotension

6888657|t|Characterization of estrogen-induced adenohypophyseal tumors in the Fischer 344rat.Pituitary tumors were induced in F344 female rats by chronic treatment withdiethylstilbestrol (DES, 8-10 mg) implanted subcutaneously in silastic capsules.Over a range of 1-150 days of DES treatment, pairs of control and DES-treated ratswere sacrificed, and their pituitaries dissociated enzymatically into single-cellpreparations. The cell populations were examined regarding total cell recoverycorrelated with gland weight, intracellular prolactin (PRL) content and subsequentrelease in primary culture, immunocytochemical PRL staining, density and/or sizealterations via separation on Ficoll-Hypaque and by unit gravity sedimentation, andcell cycle analysis, after acriflavine DNA staining, by laser flow cytometry. Totalcell yields from DES-treated pituitaries increased from 1.3 times control yields at8 days of treatment to 58.9 times control values by day 150. Intracellular PRLcontent ranged from 1.9 to 9.4 times control levels, and PRL release in vitro wassignificantly and consistently higher than controls, after at least 8 days of DESexposure. Beyond 8 days of DES exposure, the immunochemically PRL-positiveproportion of cells increased to over 50% of the total population. Increased densityand/or size and PRL content were indicated for the majority of the PRL cellpopulation in both types of separation protocols. All these effects of DES were morepronounced among previously ovariectomized animals. The data extend the findings ofother investigators, further establishing the DES-induced tumor as a model for studyof PRL cellular control mechanisms.
6888657	CID	diethylstilbestrol	adenohypophyseal tumors

7265370|t|Triamterene nephrolithiasis complicating dyazide therapy.A case of triamterene nephrolithiasis is reported in a man after 4 years ofhydrochlorothiazide-triamterene therapy for hypertension. The stone passedspontaneously and was found to contain a triamterene metabolite admixed with uricacid salts. Factors affecting triamterene nephrolithiasis are discussed and 2previously reported cases are reviewed.
7265370	CID	Triamterene	nephrolithiasis

7423039|t|Metabolic involvement in adriamycin cardiotoxicity.The cardiotoxic effects of adriamycin were studied in mammalian myocardial cellsin culture as a model system. Adriamycin inhibited cell growth and the rhythmiccontractions characteristic of myocardial cells in culture. A possible involvementof energy metabolism was suggested previously, and in this study the adenylateenergy charge and phosphorylcreatine mole fraction were determined in theadriamycin-treated cells. The adenylate energy charge was found to be significantlydecreased, while the phophorylcreatine mole fraction was unchanged. Such disparitysuggests an inhibition of creatine phosphokinase. The addition of 1 mM adenosine tothe myocardial cell cultures markedly increases the ATP concentration through apathway reportedly leading to a compartmentalized ATP pool. In theadriamycin-treated cells, the addition of adenosine increased the adenylate chargeand, concomitant with this inrcease, the cells' functional integrity, in termsof percentage of beating cells and rate of contractions, was maintained.
7423039	CID	adriamycin	cardiotoxicity

7444978|t|Age-dependent sensitivity of the rat to neurotoxic effects of streptomycin.Streptomycin sulfate (300 mg/kg s.c.) was injected for various periods intopreweanling rats and for 3 weeks into weanling rats. Beginning at 8 days of age,body movement and hearing were examined for 6 and up to 17 weeks, respectively.Abnormal movements and deafness occurred only in rats treated during the preweaningperiod; within this period the greatest sensitivities for these abnormalitiesoccurred from 2 to 11-17 and 5 to 11 days of age, respectively, indicating that thecochlea is more sensitive to streptomycin than the site (vestibular or central)responsible for the dyskinesias.
7444978	CID	streptomycin	Abnormal movements
7444978	CID	streptomycin	deafness

7834920|t|Crescentic fibrillary glomerulonephritis associated with intermittent rifampintherapy for pulmonary tuberculosis.This case study reveals an unusual finding of rapidly proliferative crescenticglomerulonephritis in a patient treated with rifampin who had no other identifiablecauses for developing this disease. This patient underwent a 10-month regimen ofrifampin and isoniazid for pulmonary tuberculosis and was discovered to havedeveloped signs of severe renal failure five weeks after completion of therapy.Renal biopsy revealed severe glomerulonephritis with crescents, electron densefibrillar deposits and moderate lymphocytic interstitial infiltrate. Other possiblecauses of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis were investigated and ruled out.This report documents the unusual occurrence of rapidly progressiveglomerulonephritis with crescents and fibrillar glomerulonephritis in a patienttreated with rifampin.
7834920	CID	rifampin	glomerulonephritis
7834920	CID	rifampin	renal failure

7881871|t|Time course of lipid peroxidation in puromycin aminonucleoside-inducednephropathy.Reactive oxygen species have been implicated in the pathogenesis of acutepuromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephropathy, with antioxidants significantlyreducing the proteinuria. The temporal relationship between lipid peroxidation inthe kidney and proteinuria was examined in this study. Rats were treated with asingle IV injection of puromycin aminonucleoside, (PAN, 7.5 mg/kg) and 24 hour urinesamples were obtained prior to sacrifice on days 3,5,7,10,17,27,41 (N = 5-10 pergroup). The kidneys were removed, flushed with ice cold TRIS buffer. Kidney corticesfrom each animal were used to prepare homogenates. Tissue lipid peroxidation wasmeasured in whole homogenates as well as in lipid extracts from homogenates asthiobarbituric acid reactive substances. Proteinuria was evident at day 5, peaked atday 7 and persisted to day 27. Lipid peroxidation in homogenates was maximal at day3 and declined rapidly to control levels by day 17. This study supports the role oflipid peroxidation in mediating the proteinuric injury in PAN nephropathy.
7881871	CID	puromycin aminonucleoside	nephropathy
7881871	CID	puromycin aminonucleoside	proteinuria

7930386|t|Clomipramine-induced sleep disturbance does not impair its prolactin-releasingaction.The present study was undertaken to examine the role of sleep disturbance, inducedby clomipramine administration, on the secretory rate of prolactin (PRL) in additionto the direct drug effect. Two groups of supine subjects were studied underplacebo-controlled conditions, one during the night, when sleeping (n = 7) and theother at daytime, when awake (n = 6). Each subject received a single 50 mg dose ofclomipramine given orally 2 hours before blood collection. Plasma PRL concentrationswere analysed at 10 min intervals and underlying secretory rates calculated by adeconvolution procedure. For both experiments the drug intake led to significantincreases in PRL secretion, acting preferentially on tonic secretion as pulseamplitude and frequency did not differ significantly from corresponding controlvalues. During the night clomipramine ingestion altered the complete sleeparchitecture in that it suppressed REM sleep and the sleep cycles and inducedincreased wakefulness. As the relative increase in PRL secretion expressed as apercentage of the mean did not significantly differ between the night and day timestudies (46 +/- 19% vs 34 +/- 10%), it can be concluded that the observed sleepdisturbance did not interfere with the drug action per se. The presence of REM sleepwas shown not to be a determining factor either for secretory pulse amplitude andfrequency, as, for both, mean nocturnal values were similar with and without priorclomipramine ingestion.
7930386	CID	Clomipramine	sleep disturbance

7988234|t|Angioedema following the intravenous administration of metoprolol.A 72-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with "flash" pulmonaryedema, preceded by chest pain, requiring intubation. Her medical history includedcoronary artery disease with previous myocardial infarctions, hypertension, anddiabetes mellitus. A history of angioedema secondary to lisinopril therapy waselicited. Current medications did not include angiotensin-converting enzymeinhibitors or beta-blockers. She had no previous beta-blocking drug exposure. Duringthe first day of hospitalization (while intubated), intravenous metoprolol wasgiven, resulting in severe angioedema. The angioedema resolved after therapy withintravenous steroids and diphenhydramine hydrochloride.
7988234	CID	metoprolol	Angioedema
7988234	CID	lisinopril	Angioedema

8073369|t|Effect of coniine on the developing chick embryo.Coniine, an alkaloid from Conium maculatum (poison hemlock), has been shown to beteratogenic in livestock. The major teratogenic outcome is arthrogryposis,presumably due to nicotinic receptor blockade. However, coniine has failed toproduce arthrogryposis in rats or mice and is only weakly teratogenic in rabbits.The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the effects of coniine andnicotine in the developing chick. Concentrations of coniine and nicotine sulfatewere 0.015%, 0.03%, 0.075%, 0.15%, 0.75%, 1.5%, 3%, and 6% and 1%, 5%, and 10%,respectively. Both compounds caused deformations and lethality in a dose-dependentmanner. All concentrations of nicotine sulfate caused some lethality but a no effectlevel for coniine lethality was 0.75%. The deformations caused by both coniine andnicotine sulfate were excessive flexion or extension of one or more toes. Nohistopathological alterations or differences in bone formation were seen in thelimbs or toes of any chicks from any group; however, extensive cranial hemorrhageoccurred in all nicotine sulfate-treated chicks. There was a statisticallysignificant (P < or = 0.01) decrease in movement in coniine and nicotine sulfatetreated chicks as determined by ultrasound. Control chicks were in motion an averageof 33.67% of the time, while coniine-treated chicks were only moving 8.95% of a5-min interval, and no movement was observed for nicotine sulfate treated chicks. Insummary, the chick embryo provides a reliable and simple experimental animal modelof coniine-induced arthrogryposis. Data from this model support a mechanisminvolving nicotinic receptor blockade with subsequent decreased fetal movement.
8073369	CID	nicotine	arthrogryposis
8073369	CID	coniine	arthrogryposis
8073369	CID	nicotine	cranial hemorrhage

8302922|t|Epidural blood flow during prostaglandin E1 or trimethaphan induced hypotension.To evaluate the effect of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) or trimethaphan (TMP) inducedhypotension on epidural blood flow (EBF) during spinal surgery, EBF was measuredusing the heat clearance method in 30 patients who underwent postero-lateralinterbody fusion under isoflurane anaesthesia. An initial dose of 0.1microgram.kg-1.min-1 of PGE1 (15 patients), or 10 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 of TMP (15patients) was administered intravenously after the dural opening and the dose wasadjusted to maintain the mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) at about 60 mmHg. Thehypotensive drug was discontinued at the completion of the operative procedure.After starting PGE1 or TMP, MAP and rate pressure product (RPP) decreasedsignificantly compared with preinfusion values (P < 0.01), and the degree ofhypotension due to PGE1 remained constant until 60 min after its discontinuation.Heart rate (HR) did not change in either group. EBFF did not change during PGE1infusion whereas in the TMP group, EBF decreased significantly at 30 and 60 minafter the start of TMP (preinfusion: 45.9 +/- 13.9 ml/100g/min. 30 min: 32.3 +/- 9.9ml/100 g/min (P < 0.05). 60 min: 30 +/- 7.5 ml/100 g/min (P < 0.05)). Theseresults suggest that PGE1 may be preferable to TMP for hypotensive anaesthesia inspinal surgery because TMP decreased EBF.
8302922	CID	trimethaphan	hypotension
8302922	CID	prostaglandin E1	hypotension

8410052|t|Immunohistochemical studies with antibodies to neurofilament proteins on axonaldamage in experimental focal lesions in rat.Immunohistochemistry with monoclonal antibodies against neurofilament (NF)proteins of middle and high molecular weight class, NF-M and NF-H, was used to studyaxonal injury in the borderzone of focal lesions in rats. Focal injury in the cortexwas produced by infusion of lactate at acid pH or by stab caused by needleinsertion. Infarcts in substantia nigra pars reticulata were evoked by prolongedpilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Immunohistochemical staining for NFs showedcharacteristic terminal clubs of axons in the borderzone of lesions. Differences inthe labelling pattern occurred with different antibodies which apparently dependedon molecular weight class of NFs and phosphorylation state. Theseimmunohistochemical changes of NFs can serve as a marker for axonal damage invarious experimental traumatic or ischemic lesions.
8410052	CID	pilocarpine	status epilepticus
8410052	CID	pilocarpine	Infarcts in substantia nigra pars reticulata
8410052	CID	pilocarpine	axonal damage

8423889|t|Increase of Parkinson disability after fluoxetine medication.Depression is a major clinical feature of Parkinson's disease. We report theincreased amount of motor disability in four patients with idiopathicParkinson's disease after exposure to the antidepressant fluoxetine. Thepossibility of a clinically relevant dopamine-antagonistic capacity of fluoxetine inParkinson's disease patients must be considered.
8423889	CID	fluoxetine	Parkinson disability

8682684|t|Acetaminophen-induced hypotension.Through 30 years of widespread use, acetaminophen has been shown to be aremarkably safe medication in therapeutic dosages. The potential for acetaminophento produce cardiovascular toxicities is very low. However, acetaminophen has beendemonstrated to produce symptoms of anaphylaxis, including hypotension, in sensitiveindividuals. This article describes two critically ill patients in whom transientepisodes of hypotension reproducibly developed after administration ofacetaminophen. Other symptoms of allergic reactions were not clinically detectable.The hypotensive episodes were severe enough to require vasopressor administration.The reports illustrate the need for clinicians to consider acetaminophen in patientswith hypotension of unknown origin.
8682684	CID	Acetaminophen	hypotension

9625142|t|Acute hepatitis, autoimmune hemolytic anemia, and erythroblastocytopenia inducedby ceftriaxone.An 80-yr-old man developed acute hepatitis shortly after ingesting oralceftriaxone. Although the transaminases gradually returned to baseline afterwithholding the beta lactam antibiotic, there was a gradual increase in serumbilirubin and a decrease in hemoglobin concentration caused by an autoimmunehemolytic anemia and erythroblastocytopenia. These responded to systemic steroidsand immunoglobulins. Despite the widespread use of these agents this triad of sideeffects has not previously been reported in connection with beta lactam antibiotics.
9625142	CID	ceftriaxone	autoimmune hemolytic anemia
9625142	CID	ceftriaxone	hepatitis

9766615|t|Adverse effects of the atypical antipsychotics. Collaborative Working Group onClinical Trial Evaluations.Adverse effects of antipsychotics often lead to noncompliance. Thus, cliniciansshould address patients' concerns about adverse effects and attempt to choosemedications that will improve their patients' quality of life as well asoverall health. The side effect profiles of the atypical antipsychotics are moreadvantageous than those of the conventional neuroleptics. Conventional agents areassociated with unwanted central nervous system effects, including extrapyramidalsymptoms (EPS), tardive dyskinesia, sedation, and possible impairment of somecognitive measures, as well as cardiac effects, orthostatic hypotension, hepaticchanges, anticholinergic side effects, sexual dysfunction, and weight gain. Thenewer atypical agents have a lower risk of EPS, but are associated in varyingdegrees with sedation, cardiovascular effects, anticholinergic effects, weight gain,sexual dysfunction, hepatic effects, lowered seizure threshold (primarilyclozapine), and agranulocytosis (clozapine only). Since the incidence and severityof specific adverse effects differ among the various atypicals, the clinician shouldcarefully consider which side effects are most likely to lead to theindividual's dissatisfaction and noncompliance before choosing an antipsychoticfor a particular patient.
9766615	CID	clozapine	agranulocytosis

10193204|t|Effects of tetrandrine and fangchinoline on experimental thrombosis in mice andhuman platelet aggregation.Tetrandrine (TET) and fangchinoline (FAN) are two naturally occurring analogueswith a bisbenzylisoquinoline structure. The present study was undertaken toinvestigate the effects of TET and FAN on the experimental thrombosis induced bycollagen plus epinephrine (EP) in mice, and platelet aggregation and bloodcoagulation in vitro. In the in vivo study, the administration (50 mg/kg, i.p.) ofTET and FAN in mice showed the inhibition of thrombosis by 55% and 35%,respectively, while acetylsalicylic acid (ASA, 50 mg/kg, i.p.), a positive control,showed only 30% inhibition. In the vitro human platelet aggregations induced by theagonists used in tests, TET and FAN showed the inhibitions dose dependently. Inaddition, neither TET nor FAN showed any anticoagulation activities in themeasurement of the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), prothrombin time(PT) and thrombin time (TT) using human-citrated plasma. These results suggest thatantithrombosis of TET and FAN in mice may be mainly related to the antiplateletaggregation activities.
10193204	CID	epinephrine	thrombosis

10526274|t|Gemcitabine plus vinorelbine in nonsmall cell lung carcinoma patients age 70 yearsor older or patients who cannot receive cisplatin. Oncopaz Cooperative Group.BACKGROUND: Although the prevalence of nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) ishigh among elderly patients, few data are available regarding the efficacy andtoxicity of chemotherapy in this group of patients. Recent reports indicate thatsingle agent therapy with vinorelbine (VNB) or gemcitabine (GEM) may obtain aresponse rate of 20-30% in elderly patients, with acceptable toxicity andimprovement in symptoms and quality of life. In the current study the efficacy andtoxicity of the combination of GEM and VNB in elderly patients with advanced NSCLCor those with some contraindication to receiving cisplatin were assessed. METHODS:Forty-nine patients with advanced NSCLC were included, 38 of whom were age >/= 70years and 11 were age < 70 years but who had some contraindication to receivingcisplatin. All patients were evaluable for response and toxicity. Treatment wascomprised of VNB, 25 mg/m(2), plus GEM, 1000 mg/m(2), both on Days 1, 8, and 15every 28 days. Patients received a minimum of three courses unless progressivedisease was detected. RESULTS: One hundred sixty-five courses were administered,with a median of 3. 6 courses per patient. The overall response rate was 26% (95%confidence interval, 15-41%). Two patients attained a complete response (4%) and 11patients (22%) achieved a partial response. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Groupperformance status improved in 35% of those patients with an initial value > 0,whereas relief of at least 1 symptom without worsening of other symptoms was notedin 27 patients (55%). The median time to progression was 16 weeks and the 1-yearsurvival rate was 33%. Toxicity was mild. Six patients (12%) had World HealthOrganization Grade 3-4 neutropenia, 2 patients (4%) had Grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia,and 2 patients (4%) had Grade 3 neurotoxicity. Three patients with severeneutropenia (6%) died of sepsis. The median age of those patients developing Grade3-4 neutropenia was significantly higher than that of the remaining patients (75years vs. 72 years; P = 0.047). CONCLUSIONS: The combination of GEM and VNB ismoderately active and well tolerated except in patients age >/= 75 years. Thisage group had an increased risk of myelosuppression. Therefore the prophylactic useof granulocyte-colony stimulating factor should be considered with this treatment.New chemotherapy combinations with higher activity and lower toxicity are needed forelderly patients with advanced NSCLC.
10526274	CID	Gemcitabine	thrombocytopenia
10526274	CID	vinorelbine	thrombocytopenia
10526274	CID	Gemcitabine	neurotoxicity
10526274	CID	vinorelbine	neutropenia
10526274	CID	Gemcitabine	neutropenia
10526274	CID	vinorelbine	neurotoxicity

10669626|t|Warfarin-induced artery calcification is accelerated by growth and vitamin D.The present studies demonstrate that growth and vitamin D treatment enhance theextent of artery calcification in rats given sufficient doses of Warfarin to inhibitgamma-carboxylation of matrix Gla protein, a calcification inhibitor known to beexpressed by smooth muscle cells and macrophages in the artery wall. The firstseries of experiments examined the influence of age and growth status on arterycalcification in Warfarin-treated rats. Treatment for 2 weeks with Warfarin causedmassive focal calcification of the artery media in 20-day-old rats and lessextensive focal calcification in 42-day-old rats. In contrast, no arterycalcification could be detected in 10-month-old adult rats even after 4 weeks ofWarfarin treatment. To directly examine the importance of growth to Warfarin-inducedartery calcification in animals of the same age, 20-day-old rats were fed for 2weeks either an ad libitum diet or a 6-g/d restricted diet that maintains weight butprevents growth. Concurrent treatment of both dietary groups with Warfarin producedmassive focal calcification of the artery media in the ad libitum-fed rats but nodetectable artery calcification in the restricted-diet, growth-inhibited group.Although the explanation for the association between artery calcification and growthstatus cannot be determined from the present study, there was a relationship betweenhigher serum phosphate and susceptibility to artery calcification, with 30% higherlevels of serum phosphate in young, ad libitum-fed rats compared with either of thegroups that was resistant to Warfarin-induced artery calcification, ie, the10-month-old rats and the restricted-diet, growth-inhibited young rats. Thisobservation suggests that increased susceptibility to Warfarin-induced arterycalcification could be related to higher serum phosphate levels. The second set ofexperiments examined the possible synergy between vitamin D and Warfarin in arterycalcification. High doses of vitamin D are known to cause calcification of theartery media in as little as 3 to 4 days. High doses of the vitamin K antagonistWarfarin are also known to cause calcification of the artery media, but at treatmenttimes of 2 weeks or longer yet not at 1 week. In the current study, we investigatedthe synergy between these 2 treatments and found that concurrent Warfarinadministration dramatically increased the extent of calcification in the media ofvitamin D-treated rats at 3 and 4 days. There was a close parallel between theeffect of vitamin D dose on artery calcification and the effect of vitamin D dose onthe elevation of serum calcium, which suggests that vitamin D may induce arterycalcification through its effect on serum calcium. Because Warfarin treatment had noeffect on the elevation in serum calcium produced by vitamin D, the synergy betweenWarfarin and vitamin D is probably best explained by the hypothesis that Warfarininhibits the activity of matrix Gla protein as a calcification inhibitor. Highlevels of matrix Gla protein are found at sites of artery calcification in ratstreated with vitamin D plus Warfarin, and chemical analysis showed that the proteinthat accumulated was indeed not gamma-carboxylated. These observations indicate thatalthough the gamma-carboxyglutamate residues of matrix Gla protein are apparentlyrequired for its function as a calcification inhibitor, they are not required forits accumulation at calcification sites.
10669626	CID	Warfarin	artery calcification

11379838|t|Antidepressant-induced mania in bipolar patients: identification of risk factors.BACKGROUND: Concerns about possible risks of switching to mania associated withantidepressants continue to interfere with the establishment of an optimal treatmentparadigm for bipolar depression. METHOD: The response of 44 patients meeting DSM-IVcriteria for bipolar disorder to naturalistic treatment was assessed for at least 6weeks using the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale and the Bech-RafaelsonMania Rating Scale. Patients who experienced a manic or hypomanic switch werecompared with those who did not on several variables including age, sex, diagnosis(DSM-IV bipolar I vs. bipolar II), number of previous manic episodes, type ofantidepressant therapy used (electroconvulsive therapy vs. antidepressant drugs and,more particularly, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]), use and type ofmood stabilizers (lithium vs. anticonvulsants), and temperament of the patient,assessed during a normothymic period using the hyperthymia component of theSemi-structured Affective Temperament Interview. RESULTS: Switches to hypomania ormania occurred in 27% of all patients (N = 12) (and in 24% of the subgroup ofpatients treated with SSRIs [8/33]); 16% (N = 7) experienced manic episodes, and 11%(N = 5) experienced hypomanic episodes. Sex, age, diagnosis (bipolar I vs. bipolarII), and additional treatment did not affect the risk of switching. The incidence ofmood switches seemed not to differ between patients receiving an anticonvulsant andthose receiving no mood stabilizer. In contrast, mood switches were less frequent inpatients receiving lithium (15%, 4/26) than in patients not treated with lithium(44%, 8/18; p = .04). The number of previous manic episodes did not affect theprobability of switching, whereas a high score on the hyperthymia component of theSemistructured Affective Temperament Interview was associated with a greater risk ofswitching (p = .008). CONCLUSION: The frequency of mood switching associated withacute antidepressant therapy may be reduced by lithium treatment. Particularattention should be paid to patients with a hyperthymic temperament, who have agreater risk of mood switches.
11379838	CID	Antidepressant	mania
11379838	CID	serotonin reuptake inhibitors	mania

11419773|t|Caffeine-induced cardiac arrhythmia: an unrecognised danger of healthfoodproducts.We describe a 25-year-old woman with pre-existing mitral valve prolapse whodeveloped intractable ventricular fibrillation after consuming a "naturalenergy" guarana health drink containing a high concentration of caffeine. Thiscase highlights the need for adequate labelling and regulation of such products.
11419773	CID	Caffeine	ventricular fibrillation

11581460|t|Bladder retention of urine as a result of continuous intravenous infusion offentanyl: 2 case reports.Sedation has been commonly used in the neonate to decrease the stress and painfrom the noxious stimuli and invasive procedures in the neonatal intensive careunit, as well as to facilitate synchrony between ventilator and spontaneous breaths.Fentanyl, an opioid analgesic, is frequently used in the neonatal intensive careunit setting for these very purposes. Various reported side effects of fentanyladministration include chest wall rigidity, hypotension, respiratory depression, andbradycardia. Here, 2 cases of urinary bladder retention leading to renalpelvocalyceal dilatation mimicking hydronephrosis as a result of continuous infusionof fentanyl are reported.
11581460	CID	fentanyl	respiratory depression
11581460	CID	fentanyl	hypotension
11581460	CID	fentanyl	urinary bladder retention
11581460	CID	fentanyl	bradycardia
11581460	CID	fentanyl	retention of urine

11706060|t|Combined antiretroviral therapy causes cardiomyopathy and elevates plasma lactatein transgenic AIDS mice.Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) is implicated in cardiomyopathy (CM)and in elevated plasma lactate (LA) in AIDS through mechanisms of mitochondrialdysfunction. To determine mitochondrial events from HAART in vivo, 8-week-oldhemizygous transgenic AIDS mice (NL4-3Delta gag/pol; TG) and wild-type FVB/nlittermates were treated with the HAART combination of zidovudine, lamivudine, andindinavir or vehicle control for 10 days or 35 days. At termination of theexperiments, mice underwent echocardiography, quantitation of abundance of molecularmarkers of CM (ventricular mRNA encoding atrial natriuretic factor [ANF] andsarcoplasmic calcium ATPase [SERCA2]), and determination of plasma LA. Myocardialhistologic features were analyzed semiquantitatively and results were confirmed bytransmission electron microscopy. After 35 days in the TG + HAART cohort, leftventricular mass increased 160% by echocardiography. Molecularly, ANF mRNA increased250% and SERCA2 mRNA decreased 57%. Biochemically, LA was elevated (8.5 +/- 2.0 mM).Pathologically, granular cytoplasmic changes were found in cardiac myocytes,indicating enlarged, damaged mitochondria. Findings were confirmedultrastructurally. No changes were found in other cohorts. After 10 days, only ANFwas elevated, and only in the TG + HAART cohort. Results show that cumulative HAARTcaused mitochondrial CM with elevated LA in AIDS transgenic mice.
11706060	CID	indinavir	cardiomyopathy
11706060	CID	lamivudine	cardiomyopathy
11706060	CID	zidovudine	cardiomyopathy

11752354|t|Oral contraceptives and the risk of myocardial infarction.BACKGROUND: An association between the use of oral contraceptives and the risk ofmyocardial infarction has been found in some, but not all, studies. We investigatedthis association, according to the type of progestagen included in third-generation(i.e., desogestrel or gestodene) and second-generation (i.e., levonorgestrel) oralcontraceptives, the dose of estrogen, and the presence or absence of prothromboticmutations METHODS: In a nationwide, population-based, case-control study, weidentified and enrolled 248 women 18 through 49 years of age who had had a firstmyocardial infarction between 1990 and 1995 and 925 control women who had not had amyocardial infarction and who were matched for age, calendar year of the indexevent, and area of residence. Subjects supplied information on oral-contraceptiveuse and major cardiovascular risk factors. An analysis for factor V Leiden and theG20210A mutation in the prothrombin gene was conducted in 217 patients and 763controls RESULTS: The odds ratio for myocardial infarction among women who used anytype of combined oral contraceptive, as compared with nonusers, was 2.0 (95 percentconfidence interval, 1.5 to 2.8). The adjusted odds ratio was 2.5 (95 percentconfidence interval, 1.5 to 4.1) among women who used second-generation oralcontraceptives and 1.3 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.7 to 2.5) among those whoused third-generation oral contraceptives. Among women who used oral contraceptives,the odds ratio was 2.1 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 3.0) for thosewithout a prothrombotic mutation and 1.9 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.6 to5.5) for those with a mutation CONCLUSIONS: The risk of myocardial infarction wasincreased among women who used second-generation oral contraceptives. The resultswith respect to the use of third-generation oral contraceptives were inconclusivebut suggested that the risk was lower than the risk associated withsecond-generation oral contraceptives. The risk of myocardial infarction was similaramong women who used oral contraceptives whether or not they had a prothromboticmutation.
11752354	CID	Oral contraceptives	myocardial infarction

12369736|t|Effects of 5-HT1B receptor ligands microinjected into the accumbal shell or coreon the cocaine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in rats.The present study was designed to examine the effect of 5-HT1B receptor ligandsmicroinjected into the subregions of the nucleus accumbens (the shell and the core)on the locomotor hyperactivity induced by cocaine in rats. Male Wistar rats wereimplanted bilaterally with cannulae into the accumbens shell or core, and then werelocally injected with GR 55562 (an antagonist of 5-HT1B receptors) or CP 93129 (anagonist of 5-HT1B receptors). Given alone to any accumbal subregion, GR 55562(0.1-10 microg/side) or CP 93129 (0.1-10 microg/side) did not change basal locomotoractivity. Systemic cocaine (10 mg/kg) significantly increased the locomotor activityof rats. GR 55562 (0.1-10 microg/side), administered intra-accumbens shell prior tococaine, dose-dependently attenuated the psychostimulant-induced locomotorhyperactivity. Such attenuation was not found in animals which had been injectedwith GR 55562 into the accumbens core. When injected into the accumbens shell (butnot the core) before cocaine, CP 93129 (0.1-10 microg/side) enhanced the locomotorresponse to cocaine; the maximum effect being observed after 10 microg/side of theagonist. The later enhancement was attenuated after intra-accumbens shell treatmentwith GR 55562 (1 microg/side). Our findings indicate that cocaine inducedhyperlocomotion is modified by 5-HT1B receptor ligands microinjected into theaccumbens shell, but not core, this modification consisting in inhibitory andfacilitatory effects of the 5-HT1B receptor antagonist (GR 55562) and agonist (CP93129), respectively. In other words, the present results suggest that the accumbalshell 5-HT1B receptors play a permissive role in the behavioural response to thepsychostimulant.
12369736	CID	cocaine	locomotor hyperactivity
12369736	CID	CP 93129	locomotor hyperactivity

12639165|t|Ticlopidine-induced cholestatic hepatitis.OBJECTIVE: To report 2 cases of ticlopidine-induced cholestatic hepatitis,investigate its mechanism, and compare the observed main characteristics with thoseof the published cases. CASE SUMMARIES: Two patients developed prolonged cholestatichepatitis after receiving ticlopidine following percutaneous coronary angioplasty,with complete remission during the follow-up period. T-cell stimulation bytherapeutic concentration of ticlopidine was demonstrated in vitro in the patients,but not in healthy controls. DISCUSSION: Cholestatic hepatitis is a rarecomplication of the antiplatelet agent ticlopidine; several cases have been reportedbut few in the English literature. Our patients developed jaundice followingtreatment with ticlopidine and showed the clinical and laboratory characteristics ofcholestatic hepatitis, which resolved after discontinuation of the drug. Hepatitismay develop weeks after discontinuation of the drug and may run a prolonged course,but complete remission was observed in all reported cases. An objective causalityassessment revealed that the adverse drug event was probably related to the use ofticlopidine. The mechanisms of this ticlopidine-induced cholestasis are unclear.Immune mechanisms may be involved in the drug's hepatotoxicity, as suggested bythe T-cell stimulation study reported here. CONCLUSIONS: Cholestatic hepatitis is arare adverse effect of ticlopidine that may be immune mediated. Patients receivingthe drug should be monitored with liver function tests along with complete bloodcell counts. This complication will be observed even less often in the future asticlopidine is being replaced by the newer antiplatelet agent clopidogrel.
12639165	CID	Ticlopidine	jaundice
12639165	CID	Ticlopidine	cholestatic
12639165	CID	Ticlopidine	hepatitis

12653683|t|Epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) subunit mRNA and protein expression in rats withpuromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrotic syndrome.In experimental nephrotic syndrome, urinary sodium excretion is decreased duringthe early phase of the disease. The molecular mechanism(s) leading to salt retentionhas not been completely elucidated. The rate-limiting constituent of collecting ductsodium transport is the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). We examined the abundanceof ENaC subunit mRNAs and proteins in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-inducednephrotic syndrome. The time courses of urinary sodium excretion, plasma aldosteroneconcentration and proteinuria were studied in male Sprague-Dawley rats treated witha single dose of either PAN or vehicle. The relative amounts of alphaENaC, betaENaCand gammaENaC mRNAs were determined in kidneys from these rats by real-timequantitative TaqMan PCR, and the amounts of proteins by Western blot. The kineticsof urinary sodium excretion and the appearance of proteinuria were comparable withthose reported previously. Sodium retention occurred on days 2, 3 and 6 after PANinjection. A significant up-regulation of alphaENaC and betaENaC mRNA abundance ondays 1 and 2 preceded sodium retention on days 2 and 3. Conversely, down-regulationof alphaENaC, betaENaC and gammaENaC mRNA expression on day 3 occurred in thepresence of high aldosterone concentrations, and was followed by a return of sodiumexcretion to control values. The amounts of alphaENaC, betaENaC and gammaENaCproteins were not increased during PAN-induced sodium retention. In conclusion, ENaCmRNA expression, especially alphaENaC, is increased in the very early phase of theexperimental model of PAN-induced nephrotic syndrome in rats, but appears to escapefrom the regulation by aldosterone after day 3.
12653683	CID	puromycin aminonucleoside	proteinuria
12653683	CID	puromycin aminonucleoside	nephrotic syndrome

14659530|t|NO-induced migraine attack: strong increase in plasma calcitonin gene-relatedpeptide (CGRP) concentration and negative correlation with platelet serotoninrelease.The aim of the present study was to investigate changes in the plasma calcitoningene-related peptide (CGRP) concentration and platelet serotonin(5-hydroxytriptamine, 5-HT) content during the immediate headache and the delayedgenuine migraine attack provoked by nitroglycerin. Fifteen female migraineurs(without aura) and eight controls participated in the study. Sublingualnitroglycerin (0.5 mg) was administered. Blood was collected from the antecubitalvein four times: 60 min before and after the nitroglycerin application, and 60 and120 min after the beginning of the migraine attack (mean 344 and 404 min; 12subjects). In those subjects who had no migraine attack (11 subjects) a similar timeschedule was used. Plasma CGRP concentration increased significantly (P<0.01)during the migraine attack and returned to baseline after the cessation of themigraine. In addition, both change and peak, showed significant positivecorrelations with migraine headache intensity (P<0.001). However, plasma CGRPconcentrations failed to change during immediate headache and in the subjects withno migraine attack. Basal CGRP concentration was significantly higher and platelet5-HT content tended to be lower in subjects who experienced a migraine attack.Platelet serotonin content decreased significantly (P<0.01) after nitroglycerinin subjects with no migraine attack but no consistent change was observed inpatients with migraine attack. In conclusion, the fact that plasma CGRPconcentration correlates with the timing and severity of a migraine headachesuggests a direct relationship between CGRP and migraine. In contrast, serotoninrelease from platelets does not provoke migraine, it may even counteract theheadache and the concomitant CGRP release in this model.
14659530	CID	nitroglycerin	migraineurs (without aura)
14659530	CID	NO	migraineurs (without aura)

15804801|t|Coronary aneurysm after implantation of a paclitaxel-eluting stent.Formation of coronary aneurysm is a rare complication of stenting with bare metalstents, but based on experimental studies drug-eluting stents may induce toxiceffects on the vessel wall with incomplete stent apposition, aneurysm formation andwith the potential of stent thrombosis or vessel rupture. We present a 43-year-oldman who developed a coronary aneurysm in the right coronary artery 6 months afterreceiving a paclitaxel-eluting stent. The patient was asymptomatic and the aneurysmwas detected in a routine control. Angiography and intracoronary ultrasounddemonstrated lack of contact between stent and vessel wall in a 15-mm long segmentwith maximal aneurysm diameter of 6.0 mm. The patient was successfully treated witha graft stent.
15804801	CID	paclitaxel	Coronary aneurysm

16160878|t|Behavioral effects of urotensin-II centrally administered in mice.Urotensin-II (U-II) receptors are widely distributed in the central nervoussystem. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of U-II causes hypertension andbradycardia and stimulates prolactin and thyrotropin secretion. However, thebehavioral effects of centrally administered U-II have received little attention. Inthe present study, we tested the effects of i.c.v. injections of U-II on behavioral,metabolic, and endocrine responses in mice. Administration of graded doses of U-II(1-10,000 ng/mouse) provoked: (1) a dose-dependent reduction in the number of headdips in the hole-board test; (2) a dose-dependent reduction in the number of entriesin the white chamber in the black-and-white compartment test, and in the number ofentries in the central platform and open arms in the plus-maze test; and (3) adose-dependent increase in the duration of immobility in the forced-swimming testand tail suspension test. Intracerebroventricular injection of U-II also caused anincrease in: food intake at doses of 100 and 1,000 ng/mouse, water intake at dosesof 100-10,000 ng/mouse, and horizontal locomotion activity at a dose of 10,000ng/mouse. Whatever was the dose, the central administration of U-II had no effect onbody temperature, nociception, apomorphine-induced penile erection and climbingbehavior, and stress-induced plasma corticosterone level. Taken together, thepresent study demonstrates that the central injection of U-II at doses of 1-10,000ng/mouse induces anxiogenic- and depressant-like effects in mouse. These datasuggest that U-II may be involved in some aspects of psychiatric disorders.
16160878	CID	apomorphine	penile erection

16274958|t|Recurrent dysphonia and acitretin.We report the case of a woman complaining of dysphonia while she was treated byacitretin. Her symptoms totally regressed after drug withdrawal and reappeared whenacitretin was reintroduced. To our knowledge, this is the first case ofacitretin-induced dysphonia. This effect may be related to the pharmacologicaleffect of this drug on mucous membranes.
16274958	CID	acitretin	dysphonia

16330766|t|Pharmacological modulation of pain-related brain activity during normal andcentral sensitization states in humans.Abnormal processing of somatosensory inputs in the central nervous system (centralsensitization) is the mechanism accounting for the enhanced pain sensitivity in theskin surrounding tissue injury (secondary hyperalgesia). Secondary hyperalgesiashares clinical characteristics with neurogenic hyperalgesia in patients withneuropathic pain. Abnormal brain responses to somatosensory stimuli have been foundin patients with hyperalgesia as well as in normal subjects during experimentalcentral sensitization. The aim of this study was to assess the effects ofgabapentin, a drug effective in neuropathic pain patients, on brain processing ofnociceptive information in normal and central sensitization states. Using functionalmagnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in normal volunteers, we studied thegabapentin-induced modulation of brain activity in response to nociceptivemechanical stimulation of normal skin and capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia.The dose of gabapentin was 1,800 mg per os, in a single administration. We foundthat (i) gabapentin reduced the activations in the bilateral operculoinsular cortex,independently of the presence of central sensitization; (ii) gabapentin reduced theactivation in the brainstem, only during central sensitization; (iii) gabapentinsuppressed stimulus-induced deactivations, only during central sensitization; thiseffect was more robust than the effect on brain activation. The observeddrug-induced effects were not due to changes in the baseline fMRI signal. Thesefindings indicate that gabapentin has a measurable antinociceptive effect and astronger antihyperalgesic effect most evident in the brain areas undergoingdeactivation, thus supporting the concept that gabapentin is more effective inmodulating nociceptive transmission when central sensitization is present.
16330766	CID	capsaicin	secondary hyperalgesia

16574712|t|MDMA polydrug users show process-specific central executive impairments coupledwith impaired social and emotional judgement processes.In recent years working memory deficits have been reported in users of MDMA(3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, ecstasy). The current study aimed to assess theimpact of MDMA use on three separate central executive processes (set shifting,inhibition and memory updating) and also on "prefrontal" mediated socialand emotional judgement processes. Fifteen polydrug ecstasy users and 15 polydrugnon-ecstasy user controls completed a general drug use questionnaire, the BrixtonSpatial Anticipation task (set shifting), Backward Digit Span procedure (memoryupdating), Inhibition of Return (inhibition), an emotional intelligence scale, theTromso Social Intelligence Scale and the Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX). Comparedwith MDMA-free polydrug controls, MDMA polydrug users showed impairments in setshifting and memory updating, and also in social and emotional judgement processes.The latter two deficits remained significant after controlling for other drug use.These data lend further support to the proposal that cognitive processes mediated bythe prefrontal cortex may be impaired by recreational ecstasy use.
16574712	CID	MDMA	impaired social and emotional judgement processes

17111419|t|Severe citrate toxicity complicating volunteer apheresis platelet donation.We report a case of severe citrate toxicity during volunteer donor apheresisplatelet collection. The donor was a 40-year-old female, first-time apheresisplatelet donor. Past medical history was remarkable for hypertension,hyperlipidemia, and depression. Reported medications included bumetanide,pravastatin, and paroxetine. Thirty minutes from the start of the procedure, thedonor noted tingling around the mouth, hands, and feet. She then very rapidlydeveloped acute onset of severe facial and extremity tetany. Empirical treatmentwith intravenous calcium gluconate was initiated, and muscle contractions slowlysubsided over approximately 10 to 15 minutes. The events are consistent with asevere reaction to calcium chelation by sodium citrate anticoagulant resulting insymptomatic systemic hypocalcemia. Upon additional retrospective analysis, it wasnoted that bumetanide is a loop diuretic that may cause significant hypocalcemia. Weconclude that careful screening for medications and underlying conditionspredisposing to hypocalcemia is recommended to help prevent severe reactions due tocitrate toxicity. Laboratory measurement of pre-procedure serum calcium levels inselected donors may identify cases requiring heightened vigilance. The case alsoillustrates the importance of maintaining preparedness for managing rare but seriousreactions in volunteer apheresis blood donors.
17111419	CID	citrate	hypocalcemia

17175308|t|Proteinuria after conversion to sirolimus in renal transplant recipients.Sirolimus (SRL) is a new, potent immunosuppressive agent. More recently,proteinuria has been reported as a consequence of sirolimus therapy, although themechanism has remained unclear. We retrospectively examined the records of 25 renaltransplant patients, who developed or displayed increased proteinuria after SRLconversion. The patient cohort (14 men, 11 women) was treated with SRL as conversiontherapy, due to chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) (n = 15) neoplasia (n = 8);Kaposi's sarcoma, Four skin cancers, One intestinal tumors, One renal cellcarsinom) or BK virus nephropathy (n = 2). SRL was started at a mean of 78 +/- 42(15 to 163) months after transplantation. Mean follow-up on SRL therapy was 20 +/-12 (6 to 43) months. Proteinuria increased from 0.445 (0 to 1.5) g/d beforeconversion to 3.2 g/dL (0.2 to 12) after conversion (P = 0.001). Before conversion 8(32%) patients had no proteinuria, whereas afterwards all patients had proteinuria.In 28% of patients proteinuria remained unchanged, whereas it increased in 68% ofpatients. In 40% it increased by more than 100%. Twenty-eight percent of patientsshowed increased proteinuria to the nephrotic range. Biopsies performed in fivepatients revealed new pathological changes: One membranoproliferative glomerulopathyand interstitial nephritis. These patients showed persistently good graft function.Serum creatinine values did not change significantly: 1.98 +/- 0.8 mg/dL before SRLtherapy and 2.53 +/- 1.9 mg/dL at last follow-up (P = .14). Five grafts were lostand the patients returned to dialysis. Five patients displayed CAN and Kaposi'ssarcoma. Mean urinary protein of patients who returned to dialysis was 1.26 (0.5 to3.5) g/d before and 4.7 (3 to 12) g/d after conversion (P = .01). Mean serumcreatinine level before conversion was 2.21 mg/dL and thereafter, 4.93 mg/dL (P =.02). Heavy proteinuria was common after the use of SRL as rescue therapy for renaltransplantation. Therefore, conversion should be considered for patients who havenot developed advanced CAN and proteinuria. The possibility of de novo glomerularpathology under SRL treatment requires further investigation by renal biopsy.
17175308	CID	sirolimus	Proteinuria

17244258|t|In vitro characterization of parasympathetic and sympathetic responses incyclophosphamide-induced cystitis in the rat.In cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis in the rat, detrusor function is impaired andthe expression and effects of muscarinic receptors altered. Whether or not theneuronal transmission may be affected by cystitis was presently investigated.Responses of urinary strip preparations from control and cyclophosphamide-pretreatedrats to electrical field stimulation and to agonists were assessed in the absenceand presence of muscarinic, adrenergic and purinergic receptor antagonists.Generally, atropine reduced contractions, but in contrast to controls, it alsoreduced responses to low electrical field stimulation intensity (1-5 Hz) in inflamedpreparations. In both types, purinoceptor desensitization with alpha,beta-methyleneadenosine-5'-triphosphate (alpha,beta-meATP) caused further reductions at lowfrequencies (<10 Hz). The muscarinic receptor antagonists atropine,4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine (4-DAMP)('M(1)/M(3)/M(5)-selective'), methoctramine ('M(2)-selective')and pirenzepine ('M(1)-selective') antagonized the tonic component of theelectrical field stimulation-evoked contractile response more potently than thephasic component. 4-DAMP inhibited the tonic contractions in controls more potentlythan methoctramine and pirenzepine. In inflamed preparations, the muscarinicreceptor antagonism on the phasic component of the electrical fieldstimulation-evoked contraction was decreased and the pirenzepine and 4-DAMPantagonism on the tonic component was much less efficient than in controls. Incontrast to controls, methoctramine increased -- instead of decreased -- the tonicresponses at high frequencies. While contractions to carbachol and ATP were the samein inflamed and in control strips when related to a reference potassium response,isoprenaline-induced relaxations were smaller in inflamed strips. Thus, in cystitissubstantial changes of the efferent functional responses occur. While postjunctionalbeta-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxations are reduced, effects by prejunctionalinhibitory muscarinic receptors may be increased.
17244258	CID	cyclophosphamide	cystitis

18020536|t|Associations between use of benzodiazepines or related drugs and health, physicalabilities and cognitive function: a non-randomised clinical study in the elderly.OBJECTIVE: To describe associations between the use of benzodiazepines or relateddrugs (BZDs/RDs) and health, functional abilities and cognitive function in theelderly. METHODS: A non-randomised clinical study of patients aged > or =65 yearsadmitted to acute hospital wards during 1 month. 164 patients (mean age +/- standarddeviation [SD] 81.6 +/- 6.8 years) were admitted. Of these, nearly half (n = 78) hadused BZDs/RDs before admission, and the remainder (n = 86) were non-users. Cognitiveability was assessed by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Patients scoring> or =20 MMSE sum points were interviewed (n = 79) and questioned regardingsymptoms and functional abilities during the week prior to admission. Data on use ofBZDs/RDs before admission, current medications and discharge diagnoses werecollected from medical records. Health, physical abilities and cognitive functionwere compared between BZD/RD users and non-users, and adjustments were made forconfounding variables. The residual serum concentrations of oxazepam, temazepam andzopiclone were analysed. RESULTS: The mean +/- SD duration of BZD/RD use was 7 +/- 7years (range 1-31). Two or three BZDs/RDs were concomitantly taken by 26% of users(n = 20). Long-term use of these drugs was associated with female sex and use of ahigher number of drugs with effects on the CNS, which tended to be related todiagnosed dementia. After adjustment for these variables as confounders, use ofBZDs/RDs was not associated with cognitive function as measured by the MMSE.However, use of BZDs/RDs was associated with dizziness, inability to sleep afterawaking at night and tiredness in the mornings during the week prior to admissionand with stronger depressive symptoms measured at the beginning of the hospitalstay. Use of BZDs/RDs tended to be associated with a reduced ability to walk andshorter night-time sleep during the week prior to admission. A higher residual serumconcentration of temazepam correlated with a lower MMSE sum score after adjustmentfor confounding variables. CONCLUSIONS: Long-term use and concomitant use of morethan one BZD/RD were common in elderly patients hospitalised because of acuteillnesses. Long-term use was associated with daytime and night-time symptomsindicative of poorer health and potentially caused by the adverse effects of thesedrugs.
18020536	CID	benzodiazepines	tiredness
18020536	CID	benzodiazepines	depressive symptoms
18020536	CID	benzodiazepines	inability to sleep
18020536	CID	benzodiazepines	dizziness

18023325|t|Acute vocal fold palsy after acute disulfiram intoxication.Acute peripheral neuropathy caused by a disulfiram overdose is very rare and thereis no report of it leading to vocal fold palsy. A 49-year-old woman was transferredto our department because of quadriparesis, lancinating pain, sensory loss, andparesthesia of the distal limbs. One month previously, she had taken a single highdose of disulfiram (130 tablets of ALCOHOL STOP TAB, Shin-Poong Pharm. Co., Ansan,Korea) in a suicide attempt. She was not an alcoholic. For the first few days afteringestion, she was in a confused state and had mild to moderate ataxia andgiddiness. She noticed hoarseness and distally accentuated motor and sensorydysfunction after she had recovered from this state. A nerve conduction study wasconsistent with severe sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy. Laryngealelectromyography (thyroarytenoid muscle) showed ample denervation potentials.Laryngoscopy revealed asymmetric vocal fold movements during phonation. Her vocalchange and weakness began to improve spontaneously about 3 weeks after transfer.This was a case of acute palsy of the recurrent laryngeal nerve and superimposedsevere acute sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy caused by high-dose disulfiramintoxication.
18023325	CID	disulfiram	paresthesia
18023325	CID	disulfiram	quadriparesis
18023325	CID	disulfiram	pain
18023325	CID	disulfiram	peripheral neuropathy
18023325	CID	disulfiram	ataxia
18023325	CID	disulfiram	vocal fold palsy

18208574|t|Higher optical density of an antigen assay predicts thrombosis in patients withheparin-induced thrombocytopenia.OBJECTIVES: To correlate optical density and percent inhibition of a two-stepheparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) antigen assay with thrombosis; the assayutilizes reaction inhibition characteristics of a high heparin concentration.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with more than 50% decrease in platelet count orthrombocytopenia (<150 x 10(9)/L) after exposure to heparin, who had a positivetwo-step antigen assay [optical density (OD) >0.4 and >50 inhibition with highconcentration of heparin] were included in the study. RESULTS: Forty of 94 HITpatients had thrombosis at diagnosis; 54/94 had isolated-HIT without thrombosis.Eight of the isolated-HIT patients developed thrombosis within the next 30 d; thus,a total of 48 patients had thrombosis at day 30. At diagnosis there was nosignificant difference in OD between HIT patients with thrombosis and those withisolated-HIT. However, OD was significantly higher in all patients with thrombosis(n = 48, 1.34 +/- 0.89), including isolated-HIT patients who later developedthrombosis within 30 d (n = 8, 1.84 +/- 0.64) as compared to isolated-HIT patientswho did not develop thrombosis (0.96 +/- 0.75; P = 0.011 and P = 0.008). TheReceiver Operative Characteristic Curve showed that OD >1.27 in the isolated-HITgroup had a significantly higher chance of developing thrombosis by day 30. None ofthese groups showed significant difference in percent inhibition. Multivariateanalysis showed a 2.8-fold increased risk of thrombosis in females. Similarly,thrombotic risk increased with age and OD values. CONCLUSION: Higher OD isassociated with significant risk of subsequent thrombosis in patients withisolated-HIT; percent inhibition, however, was not predictive.
18208574	CID	heparin	thrombosis
18208574	CID	heparin	thrombocytopenia

18343374|t|Central retinal vein occlusion associated with clomiphene-induced ovulation.OBJECTIVE: To report a case of central retinal vein occlusion associated withclomiphene citrate (CC). DESIGN: Case study. SETTING: Ophthalmology clinic of anacademic hospital. PATIENT(S): A 36-year-old woman referred from the infertilityclinic for blurred vision. INTERVENTION(S): Ophthalmic examination after CC therapy.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Central retinal vein occlusion after ovulation inductionwith CC. RESULT(S): A 36-year-old Chinese woman developed central retinal veinocclusion after eight courses of CC. A search of the literature on thethromboembolic complications of CC does not include this severe ophthalmiccomplication, although mild visual disturbance after CC intake is not uncommon.CONCLUSION(S): This is the first reported case of central retinal vein occlusionafter treatment with CC. Extra caution is warranted in treating infertility patientswith CC, and patients should be well informed of this side effect beforecommencement of therapy.
18343374	CID	clomiphene	retinal vein occlusion
18343374	CID	clomiphene	blurred vision

18417364|t|Nicotine-induced nystagmus correlates with midpontine activation.The pathomechanism of nicotine-induced nystagmus (NIN) is unknown. The aim of thisstudy was to delineate brain structures that are involved in NIN generation. Eighthealthy volunteers inhaled nicotine in darkness during a functional magneticresonance imaging (fMRI) experiment; eye movements were registered usingvideo-oculography. NIN correlated with blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) activitylevels in a midpontine site in the posterior basis pontis. NIN-induced midpontineactivation may correspond to activation of the dorsomedial pontine nuclei and thenucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis, structures known to participate in thegeneration of multidirectional saccades and smooth pursuit eye movements.
18417364	CID	Nicotine	nystagmus

18442015|t|Protective effect of verapamil on gastric hemorrhagic ulcers in severeatherosclerotic rats.Studies concerning with pathogenesis of gastric hemorrhage and mucosal ulcerationproduced in atherosclerotic rats are lacking. The aim of this study is to examinethe role of gastric acid back-diffusion, mast cell histamine release, lipid peroxide(LPO) generation and mucosal microvascular permeability in modulating gastrichemorrhage and ulcer in rats with atherosclerosis induced by coadministration ofvitamin D2 and cholesterol. Additionally, the protective effect of verapamil on thisulcer model was evaluated. Male Wistar rats were challenged intragastrically oncedaily for 9 days with 1.0 ml/kg of corn oil containing vitamin D2 and cholesterol toinduce atherosclerosis. Control rats received corn oil only. After gastric surgery,rat stomachs were irrigated for 3 h with either simulated gastric juice or normalsaline. Gastric acid back-diffusion, mucosal LPO generation, histamineconcentration, microvascular permeability, luminal hemoglobin content and ulcerareas were determined. Elevated atherosclerotic parameters, such as serum calcium,total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein concentration were obtained inatherosclerotic rats. Severe gastric ulcers accompanied with increased ulcerogenicfactors, including gastric acid back-diffusion, histamine release, LPO generationand luminal hemoglobin content were also observed in these rats. Moreover, apositive correlation of histamine to gastric hemorrhage and to ulcer was found inthose atherosclerotic rats. This hemorrhagic ulcer and various ulcerogenicparameters were dose-dependently ameliorated by daily intragastric verapamil.Atherosclerosis could produce gastric hemorrhagic ulcer via aggravation of gastricacid back-diffusion, LPO generation, histamine release and microvascularpermeability that could be ameliorated by verapamil in rats.
18442015	CID	vitamin D2	gastric hemorrhagic
18442015	CID	vitamin D2	atherosclerotic
18442015	CID	cholesterol	gastric hemorrhagic
18442015	CID	cholesterol	ulcers
18442015	CID	cholesterol	atherosclerotic
18442015	CID	vitamin D2	ulcers

18619688|t|Adriamycin-induced autophagic cardiomyocyte death plays a pathogenic role in a ratmodel of heart failure.BACKGROUND: The mechanisms underlying heart failure induced by adriamycin are verycomplicated and still unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate whetherautophagy was involved in the progression of heart failure induced by adriamycin, sothat we can develop a novel treatment strategy for heart failure. METHODS:3-methyladenine (3MA), a specific inhibitor on autophagy was used in a heart failuremodel of rats induced by adriamycin. Neonatal cardiomyocytes were isolated fromSprague-Dawley rat hearts and randomly divided into controls, an adriamycin-treatedgroup, and a 3MA plus adriamycin-treated group. We then examined the morphology,expression of beclin 1 gene, mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), and Na+-K+ATPase activity in vivo. We also assessed cell viability, mitochondrial membranepotential changes and counted autophagic vacuoles in cultured cardiomyocytes. Inaddition, we analyzed the expression of autophagy associated gene, beclin 1 usingRT-PCR and Western blotting in an animal model. RESULTS: 3MA significantly improvedcardiac function and reduced mitochondrial injury. Furthermore, adriamycin inducedthe formation of autophagic vacuoles, and 3MA strongly downregulated the expressionof beclin 1 in adriamycin-induced failing heart and inhibited the formation ofautophagic vacuoles. CONCLUSION: Autophagic cardiomyocyte death plays an importantrole in the pathogenesis of heart failure in rats induced by adriamycin.Mitochondrial injury may be involved in the progression of heart failure caused byadriamycin via the autophagy pathway.
18619688	CID	Adriamycin	heart failure

19308880|t|Confusion, a rather serious adverse drug reaction with valproic acid: a review ofthe French Pharmacovigilance database.INTRODUCTION: Confusion is an adverse drug reaction frequently observed withvalproic acid. Some case reports are published in the literature but no systematicstudy from a sample of patients has been published. We performed this study in orderto describe the main characteristics of this adverse drug reaction. METHODS: Usingthe French Pharmacovigilance database, we selected the cases of confusion reportedsince 1985 with valproic acid. RESULTS: 272 cases of confusion were reported withvalproic acid: 153 women and 119 men. Confusion mostly occurred during the two firstweeks following valproic acid exposure (39.7%). It was "serious" foralmost 2/3 of the patients (62.5%) and its outcome favourable in most of the cases(82%). The occurrence of this ADR was more frequent in patients aged between 61 and80 years. CONCLUSION: This work shows that confusion with valproic acid is aserious, rather frequent but reversible adverse drug reaction. It occurs especiallyin older patients and during the first two weeks of treatment.
19308880	CID	valproic acid	Confusion

19631624|t|Learning and memory deficits in ecstasy users and their neural correlates during aface-learning task.It has been consistently shown that ecstasy users display impairments in learningand memory performance. In addition, working memory processing in ecstasy users hasbeen shown to be associated with neural alterations in hippocampal and/or corticalregions as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Usingfunctional imaging and a face-learning task, we investigated neural correlates ofencoding and recalling face-name associations in 20 recreational drug users whosepredominant drug use was ecstasy and 20 controls. To address the potentialconfounding effects of the cannabis use of the ecstasy using group, a secondanalysis included 14 previously tested cannabis users (Nestor, L., Roberts, G.,Garavan, H., Hester, R., 2008. Deficits in learning and memory: parahippocampalhyperactivity and frontocortical hypoactivity in cannabis users. Neuroimage 40,1328-1339). Ecstasy users performed significantly worse in learning and memorycompared to controls and cannabis users. A conjunction analysis of the encode andrecall phases of the task revealed ecstasy-specific hyperactivity in bilateralfrontal regions, left temporal, right parietal, bilateral temporal, and bilateraloccipital brain regions. Ecstasy-specific hypoactivity was evident in the rightdorsal anterior cingulated cortex (ACC) and left posterior cingulated cortex. Inboth ecstasy and cannabis groups brain activation was decreased in the right medialfrontal gyrus, left parahippocampal gyrus, left dorsal cingulate gyrus, and leftcaudate. These results elucidated ecstasy-related deficits, only some of which mightbe attributed to cannabis use. These ecstasy-specific effects may be related to thevulnerability of isocortical and allocortical regions to the neurotoxic effects ofecstasy.
19631624	CID	ecstasy	memory deficits
19631624	CID	ecstasy	Learning deficits

20003049|t|Prolonged elevation of plasma argatroban in a cardiac transplant patient with asuspected history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis.BACKGROUND: Direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs) provide an alternative method ofanticoagulation for patients with a history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia(HIT) or HIT with thrombosis (HITT) undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). In thefollowing report, a 65-year-old critically ill patient with a suspected history ofHITT was administered argatroban for anticoagulation on bypass during hearttransplantation. The patient required massive transfusion support (55 units of redblood cells, 42 units of fresh-frozen plasma, 40 units of cryoprecipitate, 40 unitsof platelets, and three doses of recombinant Factor VIIa) for severe intraoperativeand postoperative bleeding. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Plasma samples from before andafter CPB were analyzed postoperatively for argatroban concentration using amodified ecarin clotting time (ECT) assay. RESULTS: Unexpectedly high concentrationsof argatroban were measured in these samples (range, 0-32 microg/mL), and aprolonged plasma argatroban half life (t(1/2)) of 514 minutes was observed(published elimination t(1/2) is 39-51 minutes [< or = 181 minutes with hepaticimpairment]). CONCLUSIONS: Correlation of plasma argatroban concentration versus thepatient's coagulation variables and clinical course suggest that prolongedelevated levels of plasma argatroban may have contributed to the patient'sextended coagulopathy. Because DTIs do not have reversal agents, surgical teams andtransfusion services should remain aware of the possibility of massive transfusionevents during anticoagulation with these agents. This is the first report to measureplasma argatroban concentration in the context of CPB and extended coagulopathy.
20003049	CID	argatroban	intraoperative bleeding
20003049	CID	argatroban	postoperative bleeding

20196116|t|Antituberculosis therapy-induced acute liver failure: magnitude, profile,prognosis, and predictors of outcome.Antituberculosis therapy (ATT)-associated acute liver failure (ATT-ALF) is thecommonest drug-induced ALF in South Asia. Prospective studies on ATT-ALF arelacking. The current study prospectively evaluated the magnitude, clinical course,outcome, and prognostic factors in ATT-ALF. From January 1986 to January 2009, 1223consecutive ALF patients were evaluated: ATT alone was the cause in 70 (5.7%)patients. Another 15 (1.2%) had ATT and simultaneous hepatitis virus infection. In44 (62.8%) patients, ATT was prescribed empirically without definitive evidence oftuberculosis. ATT-ALF patients were younger (32.87 [+/-15.8] years), and 49 (70%) ofthem were women. Most had hyperacute presentation; the median icterus encephalopathyinterval was 4.5 (0-30) days. The median duration of ATT before ALF was 30 (7-350)days. At presentation, advanced encephalopathy and cerebral edema were present in 51(76%) and 29 (41.4%) patients, respectively. Gastrointestinal bleed, seizures,infection, and acute renal failure were documented in seven (10%), five (7.1%), 26(37.1%), and seven (10%) patients, respectively. Compared with hepatitis E virus(HEV) and non-A non-E-induced ALF, ATT-ALF patients had nearly similar presentationsexcept for older age and less elevation of liver enzymes. The mortality rate amongpatients with ATT-ALF was high (67.1%, n = 47), and only 23 (32.9%) patientsrecovered with medical treatment. In multivariate analysis, three factorsindependently predicted mortality: serum bilirubin (>or=10.8 mg/dL), prothrombintime (PT) prolongation (>or=26 seconds), and grade III/IV encephalopathy atpresentation. CONCLUSION: ATT-ALF constituted 5.7% of ALF at our center and had ahigh mortality rate. Because the mortality rate is so high, determining whichfactors are predictors is less important. A high proportion of patients had consumedATT empirically, which could have been prevented.
20196116	CID	Antituberculosis	acute liver failure

20470218|t|Central nervous system complications during treatment of acute lymphoblasticleukemia in a single pediatric institution.Central nervous system (CNS) complications during treatment of childhood acutelymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) remain a challenging clinical problem. Outcomeimprovement with more intensive chemotherapy has significantly increased theincidence and severity of adverse events. This study analyzed the incidence ofneurological complications during ALL treatment in a single pediatric institution,focusing on clinical, radiological, and electrophysiological findings. Exclusioncriteria included CNS leukemic infiltration at diagnosis, therapy-related peripheralneuropathy, late-onset encephalopathy, or long-term neurocognitive defects. During a9-year period, we retrospectively collected 27 neurological events (11%) in as manypatients, from 253 children enrolled in the ALL front-line protocol. CNScomplications included posterior reversible leukoencephalopathy syndrome (n = 10),stroke (n = 5), temporal lobe epilepsy (n = 2), high-dose methotrexate toxicity (n =2), syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (n = 1), and otherunclassified events (n = 7). In conclusion, CNS complications are frequent eventsduring ALL therapy, and require rapid detection and prompt treatment to limitpermanent damage.
20470218	CID	methotrexate	Central nervous system complications

20722491|t|Safety of capecitabine: a review.IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: Fluoropyrimidines, in particular 5-fluorouracil (5-FU),have been the mainstay of treatment for several solid tumors, including colorectal,breast and head and neck cancers, for > 40 years. AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW:This article reviews the pharmacology and efficacy of capecitabine with a specialemphasis on its safety. WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: The reader will gain betterinsight into the safety of capecitabine in special populations such as patients withadvanced age, renal and kidney disease. We also explore different dosing andschedules of capecitabine administration. TAKE HOME MESSAGE: Capecitabine is an oralprodrug of 5-FU and was developed to fulfill the need for a more convenient therapyand provide an improved safety/efficacy profile. It has shown promising resultsalone or in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents in colorectal, breast,pancreaticobiliary, gastric, renal cell and head and neck cancers. The most commonlyreported toxic effects of capecitabine are diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, stomatitisand hand-foot syndrome. Capecitabine has a well-established safety profile and canbe given safely to patients with advanced age, hepatic and renal dysfunctions.
20722491	CID	capecitabine	hand-foot syndrome
20722491	CID	capecitabine	stomatitis
20722491	CID	capecitabine	vomiting
20722491	CID	capecitabine	diarrhea
20722491	CID	capecitabine	nausea

20882060|t|Effects of pallidal neurotensin on haloperidol-induced parkinsonian catalepsy:behavioral and electrophysiological studies.OBJECTIVE: The globus pallidus plays a critical role in movement regulation.Previous studies have indicated that the globus pallidus receives neurotensinergicinnervation from the striatum, and systemic administration of a neurotensin analogcould produce antiparkinsonian effects. The present study aimed to investigate theeffects of pallidal neurotensin on haloperidol-induced parkinsonian symptoms.METHODS: Behavioral experiments and electrophysiological recordings were performedin the present study. RESULTS: Bilateral infusions of neurotensin into the globuspallidus reversed haloperidol-induced parkinsonian catalepsy in rats.Electrophysiological recordings showed that microinjection of neurotensin inducedexcitation of pallidal neurons in the presence of systemic haloperidoladministration. The neurotensin type-1 receptor antagonist SR48692 blocked both thebehavioral and the electrophysiological effects induced by neurotensin. CONCLUSION:Activation of pallidal neurotensin receptors may be involved in neurotensin-inducedantiparkinsonian effects.
20882060	CID	haloperidol	parkinsonian catalepsy

26094|t|Antihypertensive drugs and depression: a reappraisal.Eighty-nine new referral hypertensive out-patients and 46 new referralnon-hypertensive chronically physically ill out-patients completed a mood ratingscale at regular intervals for one year. The results showed a high prevalence ofdepression in both groups of patients, with no preponderance in the hypertensivegroup. Hypertensive patients with psychiatric histories had a higher prevalence ofdepression than the comparison patients. This was accounted for by a significantnumber of depressions occurring in methyl dopa treated patients with psychiatrichistories.
26094	CID	methyl dopa	depression

322550|t|Pulmonary shunt and cardiovascular responses to CPAP during nitroprusside-inducedhypotension.The effects of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) on cardiovasculardynamics and pulmonary shunt (QS/QT) were investigated in 12 dogs before and duringsodium nitroprusside infusion that decreased mean arterial blood pressure 40-50 percent. Before nitroprusside infusion, 5 cm H2O CPAP significantly, P less than .05,decreased arterial blood pressure, but did not significantly alter heart rate,cardiac output, systemic vascular resistance, or QS/QT. Ten cm H2O CPAP beforenitroprusside infusion produced a further decrease in arterial blood pressure andsignificantly increased heart rate and decreased cardiac output and QS/QT.Nitroprusside caused significant decreases in arterial blood pressure and systemicvascular resistance and increases in heart rate, but did not change cardiac outputor QS/QT. Five cm H2O CPAP during nitroprusside did not further alter any of theabove-mentioned variables. However, 10 cm H2O CPAP decreased arterial bloodpressure, cardiac output, and QS/QT. These data indicate that nitroprusside infusionrates that decrease mean arterial blood pressure by 40-50 per cent do not changecardiac output or QS/QT. During nitroprusside infusion low levels of CPAP do notmarkedly alter cardiovascular dynamics, but high levels of CPAP (10 cm H2O), whiledecreasing QS/QT, produce marked decreases in arterial blood pressure and cardiacoutput.
322550	CID	nitroprusside	hypotension

869641|t|Mediation of enhanced reflex vagal bradycardia by L-dopa via central dopamineformation in dogs.L-Dopa (5 mg/kg i.v.) decreased blood pressure and heart rate after extracerebraldecarboxylase inhibition with MK-486 (25 mg/kg i.v.) in anesthetize MAO-inhibiteddogs. In addition, reflex bradycardia caused by injected norepinephrine wassignificantly enhanced by L-dopa, DL-Threo-dihydroxyphenylserine had no effect onblood pressure, heart rate or reflex responses to norepinephrine. FLA-63, adopamine-beta-oxidase inhibitor, did not have any effect on the hypotension,bradycardia or reflex-enhancing effect of L-dopa. Pimozide did not affect theactions of L-dopa on blood pressure and heart rate but completely blocked theenhancement of reflexes. Removal of the carotid sinuses caused an elevation bloodpressure and heart rate and abolished the negative chronotropic effect ofnorepinephrine. However, L-dopa restored the bradycardia caused by norepinephrine inaddition to decreasing blood pressure and heart rate. 5-HTP (5 mg/kg i.v.) decreasedblood pressure and heart rate and decreased the reflex bradycardia tonorepinephrine. It is concluded that L-dopa enhances reflex bradycardia throughcentral alpha-receptor stimulation. Furthermore, the effects are mediated throughdopamine rather than norepinephrine and do not require the carotid sinusbaroreceptors.
869641	CID	norepinephrine	bradycardia

1749407|t|Cocaine-induced myocardial infarction: clinical observations and pathogeneticconsiderations.Clinical and experimental data published to date suggest several possiblemechanisms by which cocaine may result in acute myocardial infarction. Inindividuals with preexisting, high-grade coronary arterial narrowing, acutemyocardial infarction may result from an increase in myocardial oxygen demandassociated with cocaine-induced increase in rate-pressure product. In otherindividuals with no underlying atherosclerotic obstruction, coronary occlusion maybe due to spasm, thrombus, or both. With regard to spasm, the clinical findings arelargely circumstantial, and the locus of cocaine-induced vasoconstriction remainsspeculative. Although certain clinical and experimental findings support thehypothesis that spasm involves the epicardial, medium-size vessels, other datasuggest intramural vasoconstriction. Diffuse intramural vasoconstriction is notconsistent with reports of segmental, discrete infarction. Whereas certain in vivodata suggest that these effects are alpha-mediated, other in vitro data suggest theopposite. The finding of cocaine-induced vasoconstriction in segments of(noninnervated) human umbilical artery suggests that the presence or absence ofintact innervation is not sufficient to explain the discrepant data involving thepossibility of alpha-mediated effects. Finally, the contribution of a primary,thrombotic effect of cocaine has not been excluded.
1749407	CID	Cocaine	myocardial infarction

1786266|t|Rabbit syndrome, antidepressant use, and cerebral perfusion SPECT scan findings.The rabbit syndrome is an extrapyramidal side effect associated with chronicneuroleptic therapy. Its occurrence in a patient being treated with imipramine isdescribed, representing the first reported case of this syndrome in conjunction withantidepressants. Repeated cerebral perfusion SPECT scans revealed decreased basalganglia perfusion while the movement disorder was present, and a return to normalperfusion when the rabbit syndrome resolved.
1786266	CID	imipramine	Rabbit syndrome

1835291|t|Acute bronchodilating effects of ipratropium bromide and theophylline in chronicobstructive pulmonary disease.The bronchodilator effects of a single dose of ipratropium bromide aerosol (36micrograms) and short-acting theophylline tablets (dose titrated to produce serumlevels of 10-20 micrograms/mL) were compared in a double-blind, placebo-controlledcrossover study in 21 patients with stable, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.Mean peak forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) increases over baseline andthe proportion of patients attaining at least a 15% increase in the FEV1(responders) were 31% and 90%, respectively, for ipratropium and 17% and 50%,respectively, for theophylline. The average FEV1 increases during the 6-hourobservation period were 18% for ipratropium and 8% for theophylline. The meanduration of action was 3.8 hours with ipratropium and 2.4 hours with theophylline.While side effects were rare, those experienced after theophylline use did involvethe cardiovascular and gastrointestinal systems. These results show that ipratropiumis a more potent bronchodilator than oral theophylline in patients with chronicairflow obstruction.
1835291	CID	theophylline	cardiovascular systems
1835291	CID	theophylline	gastrointestinal systems

1919871|t|Irreversible damage to the medullary interstitium in experimental analgesicnephropathy in F344 rats.Renal papillary necrosis (RPN) and a decreased urinary concentrating abilitydeveloped during continuous long-term treatment with aspirin and paracetamol infemale Fischer 344 rats. Renal structure and concentrating ability were examinedafter a recovery period of up to 18 weeks, when no analgesics were given, toinvestigate whether the analgesic-induced changes were reversible. There was noevidence of repair to the damaged medullary interstitial matrix, or proliferation ofremaining undamaged type 1 medullary interstitial cells after the recovery periodfollowing analgesic treatment. The recovery of urinary concentrating ability wasrelated to the length of analgesic treatment and the extent of the resulting innermedullary structural damage. During the early stages of analgesic treatment, thechanges in urinary concentrating ability were reversible, but after prolongedanalgesic treatment, maximum urinary concentrating ability failed to recover. Thisstudy shows that prolonged analgesic treatment in Fischer 344 rats causesprogressive and irreversible damage to the interstitial matrix and type 1interstitial cells leading to RPN. The associated urinary concentrating defect isreversible only during the early stages of structural damage to the inner medulla.
1919871	CID	paracetamol	Renal papillary necrosis
1919871	CID	aspirin	Renal papillary necrosis

1987816|t|Less frequent lithium administration and lower urine volume.OBJECTIVE: This study was designed to determine whether patients maintained on aregimen of lithium on a once-per-day schedule have lower urine volumes than dopatients receiving multiple doses per day. METHOD: This was a cross-sectional studyof 85 patients from a lithium clinic who received different dose schedules. Patientswere admitted to the hospital for measurement of lithium level, creatinineclearance, urine volume, and maximum osmolality. RESULTS: Multiple daily doses oflithium were associated with higher urine volumes. The dosing schedule, duration oflithium treatment, and daily dose of lithium did not affect maximum osmolality orcreatinine clearance. CONCLUSIONS: Urine volume can be reduced by giving lithiumonce daily and/or by lowering the total daily dose. Lithium-induced polyuria seemsto be related to extrarenal as well as to renal effects.
1987816	CID	lithium	polyuria

2054792|t|Effect of adriamycin combined with whole body hyperthermia on tumor and normaltissues.Thermal enhancement of Adriamycin-mediated antitumor activity and normal tissuetoxicities by whole body hyperthermia were compared using a F344 rat model.Antitumor activity was studied using a tumor growth delay assay. Acute normal tissuetoxicities (i.e., leukopenia and thrombocytopenia) and late normal tissue toxicities(i.e., myocardial and kidney injury) were evaluated by functional/physiologicalassays and by morphological techniques. Whole body hyperthermia (120 min at 41.5degrees C) enhanced both Adriamycin-mediated antitumor activity and toxic sideeffects. The thermal enhancement ratio calculated for antitumor activity was 1.6.Thermal enhancement ratios estimated for "acute" hematological changeswere 1.3, whereas those estimated for "late" damage (based onmorphological cardiac and renal lesions) varied between 2.4 and 4.3. Thus, whilewhole body hyperthermia enhances Adriamycin-mediated antitumor effect, normal tissuetoxicity is also increased, and the potential therapeutic gain of the combinedmodality treatment is eroded.
2054792	CID	adriamycin	myocardial injury

2304736|t|Prazosin-induced stress incontinence.A case of genuine stress incontinence due to prazosin, a common antihypertensivedrug, is presented. Prazosin exerts its antihypertensive effects throughvasodilatation caused by selective blockade of postsynaptic alpha-1 adrenergicreceptors. As an alpha-blocker, it also exerts a significant relaxant effect on thebladder neck and urethra. The patient's clinical course is described andcorrelated with initial urodynamic studies while on prazosin and subsequent studieswhile taking verapamil. Her incontinence resolved with the change of medication. Therestoration of continence was accompanied by a substantial rise in maximum urethralpressure, maximum urethral closure pressure, and functional urethral length.Patients who present with stress incontinence while taking prazosin should changetheir antihypertensive medication before considering surgery, because theirincontinence may resolve spontaneously with a change in drug therapy.
2304736	CID	Prazosin	stress incontinence

2312209|t|Myocardial infarction following sublingual administration of isosorbide dinitrate.A 78-year-old with healed septal necrosis suffered a recurrent myocardialinfarction of the anterior wall following the administration of isosorbide dinitrate5 mg sublingually. After detailing the course of events, we discuss the role ofparadoxical coronary spasm and hypotension-mediated myocardial ischemia occurringdownstream to significant coronary arterial stenosis in the pathophysiology of acutecoronary insufficiency.
2312209	CID	isosorbide dinitrate	Myocardial infarction

2549018|t|Fluoxetine-induced akathisia: clinical and theoretical implications.Five patients receiving fluoxetine for the treatment of obsessive compulsivedisorder or major depression developed akathisia. The typical fluoxetine-inducedsymptoms of restlessness, constant pacing, purposeless movements of the feet andlegs, and marked anxiety were indistinguishable from those of neuroleptic-inducedakathisia. Three patients who had experienced neuroleptic-induced akathisia in thepast reported that the symptoms of fluoxetine-induced akathisia were identical,although somewhat milder. Akathisia appeared to be a common side effect offluoxetine and generally responded well to treatment with the beta-adrenergicantagonist propranolol, dose reduction, or both. The authors suggest thatfluoxetine-induced akathisia may be caused by serotonergically mediated inhibitionof dopaminergic neurotransmission and that the pathophysiology of fluoxetine-inducedakathisia and tricyclic antidepressant-induced "jitteriness" may beidentical.
2549018	CID	Fluoxetine	akathisia

2611118|t|Chronic active hepatitis associated with diclofenac sodium therapy.Diclofenac sodium (Voltarol, Geigy Pharmaceuticals) is a non-steroidalanti-inflammatory derivative of phenylacetic acid. Although generallywell-tolerated, asymptomatic abnormalities of liver function have been recorded and,less commonly, severe hepatitis induced by diclofenac. The patient describeddeveloped chronic active hepatitis after six months therapy with diclofenac sodiumwhich progressed despite the withdrawal of the drug, a finding not previouslyreported.
2611118	CID	diclofenac sodium	abnormalities of liver function

2673163|t|Stroke associated with cocaine use.We describe eight patients in whom cocaine use was related to stroke and review 39cases from the literature. Among these 47 patients the mean (+/- SD) age was 32.5+/- 12.1 years; 76% (34/45) were men. Stroke followed cocaine use by inhalation,intranasal, intravenous, and intramuscular routes. Intracranial aneurysms orarteriovenous malformations were present in 17 of 32 patients studiedangiographically or at autopsy; cerebral vasculitis was present in two patients.Cerebral infarction occurred in 10 patients (22%), intracerebral hemorrhage in 22(49%), and subarachnoid hemorrhage in 13 (29%). These data indicate that (1) theapparent incidence of stroke related to cocaine use is increasing; (2)cocaine-associated stroke occurs primarily in young adults; (3) stroke may followany route of cocaine administration; (4) stroke after cocaine use is frequentlyassociated with intracranial aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations; and (5) incocaine-associated stroke, the frequency of intracranial hemorrhage exceeds that ofcerebral infarction.
2673163	CID	cocaine	intracerebral hemorrhage
2673163	CID	cocaine	subarachnoid hemorrhage
2673163	CID	cocaine	Cerebral infarction

3107448|t|Glyburide-induced hepatitis.Drug-induced hepatotoxicity, although common, has been reported only infrequentlywith sulfonylureas. For glyburide, a second-generation sulfonylurea, only two briefreports of hepatotoxicity exist. Two patients with type II diabetes mellitusdeveloped an acute hepatitis-like syndrome soon after initiation of glyburidetherapy. There was no serologic evidence of viral infection, and a liver biopsysample showed a histologic pattern consistent with drug-induced hepatitis. Bothpatients recovered quickly after stopping glyburide therapy and have remained wellfor a follow-up period of 1 year. Glyburide can produce an acute hepatitis-likeillness in some persons.
3107448	CID	Glyburide	hepatitis

3341566|t|Systolic pressure variation is greater during hemorrhage than during sodiumnitroprusside-induced hypotension in ventilated dogs.The systolic pressure variation (SPV), which is the difference between the maximaland minimal values of the systolic blood pressure (SBP) after one positive-pressurebreath, was studied in ventilated dogs subjected to hypotension. Mean arterialpressure was decreased to 50 mm Hg for 30 minutes either by hemorrhage (HEM, n = 7)or by continuous infusion of sodium nitroprusside (SNP, n = 7). During HEM-inducedhypotension the cardiac output was significantly lower and systemic vascularresistance higher compared with that in the SNP group. The systemic, central venous,pulmonary capillary wedge pressures, and heart rates, were similar in the twogroups. Analysis of the respiratory changes in the arterial pressure waveformenabled differentiation between the two groups. The SPV during hypotension was 15.7+/- 6.7 mm Hg in the HEM group, compared with 9.1 +/- 2.0 mm Hg in the SNP group (Pless than 0.02). The delta down, which is the measure of decrease of SBP after amechanical breath, was 20.3 +/- 8.4 and 10.1 +/- 3.8 mm Hg in the HEM and SNPgroups, respectively, during hypotension (P less than 0.02). It is concluded thatincreases in the SPV and the delta down are characteristic of a hypotensive statedue to a predominant decrease in preload. They are thus more important duringabsolute hypovolemia than during deliberate hypotension.
3341566	CID	sodium nitroprusside	hypotension

3564823|t|Drug-induced arterial spasm relieved by lidocaine. Case report.Following major intracranial surgery in a 35-year-old man, sodium pentothal wasintravenously infused to minimize cerebral ischaemia. Intense vasospasm withthreatened gangrene arose in the arm used for the infusion. Since the cranialcondition precluded use of more usual methods, lidocaine was given intra-arterially,with careful cardiovascular monitoring, to counteract the vasospasm. The treatmentwas rapidly successful.
3564823	CID	sodium pentothal	spasm

3676049|t|Cerebral blood flow and metabolism during isoflurane-induced hypotension inpatients subjected to surgery for cerebral aneurysms.Cerebral blood flow and cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen were measured duringisoflurane-induced hypotension in 10 patients subjected to craniotomy for clippingof a cerebral aneurysm. Flow and metabolism were measured 5-13 days after thesubarachnoid haemorrhage by a modification of the classical Kety-Schmidt techniqueusing xenon-133 i.v. Anaesthesia was maintained with an inspired isofluraneconcentration of 0.75% (plus 67% nitrous oxide in oxygen), during which CBF andCMRO2 were 34.3 +/- 2.1 ml/100 g min-1 and 2.32 +/- 0.16 ml/100 g min-1 at PaCO2 4.1+/- 0.1 kPa (mean +/- SEM). Controlled hypotension to an average MAP of 50-55 mm Hgwas induced by increasing the dose of isoflurane, and maintained at an inspiredconcentration of 2.2 +/- 0.2%. This resulted in a significant decrease in CMRO2 (to1.73 +/- 0.16 ml/100 g min-1), while CBF was unchanged. After the clipping of theaneurysm the isoflurane concentration was reduced to 0.75%. There was a significantincrease in CBF, although CMRO2 was unchanged, compared with pre-hypotensive values.These changes might offer protection to brain tissue during periods of inducedhypotension.
3676049	CID	isoflurane	hypotension

3719553|t|Allergic reaction to 5-fluorouracil infusion.An allergic reaction consisting of angioneurotic edema secondary to continuousinfusion 5-fluorouracil occurred in a patient with recurrent carcinoma of the oralcavity, cirrhosis, and cisplatin-induced impaired renal function. This reactionoccurred during the sixth and seventh courses of infusional chemotherapy. Oraldiphenhydramine and prednisone were ineffective in preventing the recurrence of theallergic reaction. Discontinuance of effective chemotherapy in this patient duringpartial remission resulted in fatal disease progression.
3719553	CID	5-fluorouracil	angioneurotic edema

4008111|t|Amiodarone-induced sinoatrial block.We observed sinoatrial block due to chronic amiodarone administration in a5-year-old boy with primary cardiomyopathy, Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome andsupraventricular tachycardia. Reduction in the dosage of amiodarone resulted in thedisappearance of the sinoatrial block and the persistence of asymptomatic sinusbradycardia.
4008111	CID	Amiodarone	sinoatrial block

6133211|t|Possible teratogenicity of sulphasalazine.Three infants, born of two mothers with inflammatory bowel disease who receivedtreatment with sulphasalazine throughout pregnancy, were found to have majorcongenital anomalies. In the singleton pregnancy, the mother had ulcerative colitis,and the infant, a male, had coarctation of the aorta and a ventricular septaldefect. In the twin pregnancy, the mother had Crohn's disease. The first twin,a female, had a left Potter-type IIa polycystic kidney and a rudimentary leftuterine cornu. The second twin, a male, had some features of Potter's facies,hypoplastic lungs, absent kidneys and ureters, and talipes equinovarus. Despitereports to the contrary, it is suggested that sulphasalazine may be teratogenic.
6133211	CID	sulphasalazine	talipes equinovarus
6133211	CID	sulphasalazine	coarctation of the aorta
6133211	CID	sulphasalazine	ventricular septal defect
6133211	CID	sulphasalazine	Potter-type IIa polycystic kidney

6503301|t|Veno-occlusive liver disease after dacarbazine therapy (DTIC) for melanoma.A case of veno-occlusive disease of the liver with fatal outcome after dacarbazine(DTIC) therapy for melanoma is reported. There was a fulminant clinical course fromstart of symptoms until death. At autopsy the liver was enlarged and firm with signsof venous congestion. Small- and medium-sized hepatic veins were blocked bythrombosis. Eosinophilic infiltrations were found around the vessels. Publishedcases from the literature are reviewed and pertinent features discussed.
6503301	CID	dacarbazine	Veno-occlusive liver disease

6727060|t|A case of tardive dyskinesia caused by metoclopramide.Abnormal involuntary movements appeared in the mouth, tongue, neck and abdomen ofa 64-year-old male patient after he took metoclopramide for gastrointestinaldisorder in a regimen of 30 mg per day for a total of about 260 days. The symptomsexacerbated to a maximum in a month. When the metoclopramide administration wasdiscontinued, the abnormal movements gradually improved to a considerable extent.Attention to the possible induction of specific tardive dyskinesia is called for inthe use of this drug.
6727060	CID	metoclopramide	tardive dyskinesia

7083920|t|Further observations on the electrophysiologic effects of oral amiodarone therapy.A case is presented of a reversible intra-Hisian block occurring under amiodaronetreatment for atrial tachycardia in a patient without clear intraventricularconduction abnormalities. His bundle recordings showed an atrial tachycardia withintermittent exit block and greatly prolonged BH and HV intervals (40 and 100 msec,respectively). Thirty days after amiodarone discontinuation, His bundle electrogramsshowed atrial flutter without intra-Hisian or infra-Hisian delay. Amiodarone shouldbe used with caution during long-term oral therapy in patients with or without clearintraventricular conduction defects.
7083920	CID	amiodarone	intra-Hisian block

7269015|t|Busulfan-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.A case of a busulfan-induced hemorrhage cystitis is reported. Spontaneousresolution occurred following cessation of the drug. The similarity between thehistologic appearances of busulfan cystitis and both radiation andcyclophosphamide-induced cystitis is discussed and the world literature reviewed. Inview of the known tendency of busulfan to induce cellular atypia and carcinoma inother sites, periodic urinary cytology is suggested in patients on long-termtherapy.
7269015	CID	Busulfan	cystitis
7269015	CID	Busulfan	hemorrhagic

7352670|t|Rebound hypertensive after sodium nitroprusside prevented by saralasin in rats.The role of the renin--angiotensin system in the maintenance of blood pressureduring halothane anesthesia and sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-induced hypotension wasevaluated. Control rats received halothane anesthesia (1 MAC) for one hour, followedby SNP infusion, 40 microgram/kg/min, for 30 min, followed by a 30-min recoveryperiod. A second group of rats was treated identically and, in addition, received aninfusion of saralasin (a competitive inhibitor of angiotensin II) throughout theexperimental period. In each group, SNP infusion resulted in an initial decrease inblood pressure from 86 torr and 83 torr, respectively, to 48 torr. During the SNPinfusion the control animals demonstrated a progressive increase in blood pressureto 61 torr, whereas the saralasin-treated animals showed no change. Followingdiscontinuation of SNP, blood pressure in the control animals rebounded to 94 torr,as compared with 78 torr in the saralasin-treated rats. This study indicates thatwith stable halothane anesthesia, the partial recovery of blood pressure during SNPinfusion and the post-SNP rebound of blood pressure can be completely blocked bysaralasin. This demonstrates the participation of the renin--angiotensin system inantagonizing the combined hypotensive effects of halothane and SNP.
7352670	CID	sodium nitroprusside	hypotension
7352670	CID	halothane	hypotension

7504976|t|Toxic hepatitis induced by antithyroid drugs: four cases including one withcross-reactivity between carbimazole and benzylthiouracil.OBJECTIVE: This study was conducted to assess the occurrence of hepatic adverseeffects encountered with antithyroid drugs. METHODS: Retrospective review of medicalrecords of 236 patients with hyperthyroidism admitted in our department (in- orout-patients) from 1986 to 1992. RESULTS: Four patients (1.7%) were identified withtoxic hepatitis which could reasonably be attributed to the use of antithyroidagent. Two patients had a cholestatic hepatitis induced by carbimazole (Nomercazole). Two others had a mixed (cholestatic and cytolytic) hepatitis followingcarbimazole. One of the latter two patients further experienced a cytolytichepatitis which appeared after Benzylthiouracil (Basd ne) had replaced carbimazole.Biological features of hepatitis disappeared in all cases after cessation of theincriminated drug, while biliary, viral and immunological searches were negative.Only 2 patients of our retrospective study experienced a mild or severe neutropenia.CONCLUSION: Toxic hepatitis is a potential adverse effect of antithyroid drugs whichwarrants, as for haematological disturbances, a pre-therapeutic determination and acareful follow-up of relevant biological markers. Moreover, hepatotoxicity may notbe restricted to one class of antithyroid agents.
7504976	CID	carbimazole	Toxic hepatitis
7504976	CID	carbimazole	cholestatic

7628595|t|Study of the role of vitamin B12 and folinic acid supplementation in preventinghematologic toxicity of zidovudine.A prospective, randomized study was conducted to evaluate the role of vitamin B12and folinic acid supplementation in preventing zidovudine (ZDV)-induced bone marrowsuppression. Seventy-five human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients withCD4+ cell counts < 500/mm3 were randomized to receive either ZDV (500 mg daily)alone (group I, n = 38) or in combination with folinic acid (15 mg daily) andintramascular vitamin B12 (1000 micrograms monthly) (group II, n = 37). Finally, 15patients were excluded from the study (noncompliance 14, death 1); thus, 60 patients(31 in group I and 29 in group II) were eligible for analysis. No significantdifferences between groups were found at enrollment. During the study, vitamin B12and folate levels were significantly higher in group II patients; however, nodifferences in hemoglobin, hematocrit, mean corpuscular volume, and white-cell,neutrophil and platelet counts were observed between groups at 3, 6, 9 and 12months. Severe hematologic toxicity (neutrophil count < 1000/mm3 and/orhemoglobin < 8 g/dl) occurred in 4 patients assigned to group I and 7 assigned togroup II. There was no correlation between vitamin B12 or folate levels anddevelopment of myelosuppression. Vitamin B12 and folinic acid supplementation of ZDVtherapy does not seem useful in preventing or reducing ZDV-induced myelotoxicity inthe overall treated population, although a beneficial effect in certain subgroups ofpatients cannot be excluded.
7628595	CID	zidovudine	bone marrow suppression

7858459|t|Acute confusion induced by a high-dose infusion of 5-fluorouracil and folinicacid.A 61-year-old man was treated with combination chemotherapy incorporatingcisplatinum, etoposide, high-dose 5-fluorouracil (2,250 mg/m2/24 hours) and folinicacid for an inoperable gastric adenocarcinoma. He developed acute neurologicsymptoms of mental confusion, disorientation and irritability, and then lapsed intoa deep coma, lasting for approximately 40 hours during the first dose (day 2) of5-fluorouracil and folinic acid infusion. This complication reappeared on day 25during the second dose of 5-fluorouracil and folinic acid, which were then the onlydrugs given. Because folinic acid was unlikely to be associated with this condition,neurotoxicity due to high-dose 5-fluorouracil was highly suspected. The pathogenesisof 5-fluorouracil neurotoxicity may be due to a Krebs cycle blockade byfluoroacetate and fluorocitrate, thiamine deficiency, or dihydrouracil dehydrogenasedeficiency. High-dose 5-fluorouracil/folinic acid infusion therapy has recentlybecome a popular regimen for various cancers. It is necessary that both oncologistsand neurologists be fully aware of this unusual complication.
7858459	CID	folinic acid	confusion
7858459	CID	5-fluorouracil	coma
7858459	CID	5-fluorouracil	confusion
7858459	CID	folinic acid	coma

7862923|t|Effect of switching carbamazepine to oxcarbazepine on the plasma levels ofneuroleptics. A case report.Carbamazepine was switched to its 10-keto analogue oxcarbazepine among sixdifficult-to-treat schizophrenic or organic psychotic patients using concomitantlyhaloperidol, chlorpromazine or clozapine. This change resulted within 2-4 weeks inthe 50-200% increase in the plasma levels of these neuroleptics and the appearanceof extrapyramidal symptoms. None of the patients showed any clinical deteriotationduring the following 3-6 months. The results of this case report support the ideathat in contrast with carbamazepine oxcarbazepine does not induce the hepaticmicrosomal enzyme systems regulating the inactivation of antipsychotic drugs.
7862923	CID	haloperidol	extrapyramidal symptoms
7862923	CID	chlorpromazine	extrapyramidal symptoms
7862923	CID	clozapine	extrapyramidal symptoms
7862923	CID	oxcarbazepine	extrapyramidal symptoms

7919560|t|Erythema multiforme and hypersensitivity myocarditis caused by ampicillin.OBJECTIVE: To report a case of erythema multiforme and hypersensitivitymyocarditis caused by ampicillin. CASE SUMMARY: A 13-year-old boy was treated withampicillin and gentamicin because of suspected septicemia. Medications werediscontinued when erythema multiforme and congestive heart failure caused bymyocarditis occurred. The patient was treated with methylprednisolone and graduallyimproved. Macrophage-migration inhibition (MIF) test with ampicillin was positive.DISCUSSION: After most infections causing erythema multiforme and myocarditis wereruled out, a drug-induced allergic reaction was suspected. Positive MIF test forampicillin showed sensitization of the patient's lymphocytes to ampicillin.CONCLUSIONS: Hypersensitivity myocarditis is a rare and dangerous manifestation ofallergy to penicillins.
7919560	CID	ampicillin	Erythema multiforme
7919560	CID	ampicillin	drug-induced allergic reaction
7919560	CID	ampicillin	hypersensitivity myocarditis

8092427|t|Immediate allergic reactions to amoxicillin.A large group of patients with suspected allergic reactions to beta-lactamantibiotics was evaluated. A detailed clinical history, together with skin tests,RAST (radioallergosorbent test), and controlled challenge tests, was used toestablish whether patients allergic to beta-lactam antibiotics had selectiveimmediate allergic responses to amoxicillin (AX) or were cross-reacting with otherpenicillin derivatives. Skin tests were performed withbenzylpenicilloyl-poly-L-lysine (BPO-PLL), benzylpenicilloate, benzylpenicillin(PG), ampicillin (AMP), and AX. RAST for BPO-PLL and AX-PLL was done. When both skintest and RAST for BPO were negative, single-blind, placebo-controlled challengetests were done to ensure tolerance of PG or sensitivity to AX. A total of 177patients were diagnosed as allergic to beta-lactam antibiotics. We selected the 54(30.5%) cases of immediate AX allergy with good tolerance of PG. Anaphylaxis wasseen in 37 patients (69%), the other 17 (31%) having urticaria and/or angioedema.All the patients were skin test negative to BPO; 49 of 51 (96%) were also negativeto MDM, and 44 of 46 (96%) to PG. Skin tests with AX were positive in 34 (63%)patients. RAST was positive for AX in 22 patients (41%) and to BPO in just 5 (9%).None of the sera with negative RAST for AX were positive to BPO. Challenge testswith AX were performed in 23 subjects (43%) to establish the diagnosis of immediateallergic reaction to AX, and in 15 cases (28%) both skin test and RAST for AX werenegative. PG was well tolerated by all 54 patients. We describe the largest group ofAX-allergic patients who have tolerated PG reported so far. Diagnosis of thesepatients can be achieved only if specific AX-related reagents are employed. Furtherstudies are necessary to determine the exact extent of this problem and to improvethe efficacy of diagnostic methods.
8092427	CID	amoxicillin	Anaphylaxis
8092427	CID	amoxicillin	allergic reactions
8092427	CID	amoxicillin	angioedema

8638206|t|Persistent paralysis after prolonged use of atracurium in the absence ofcorticosteroids.Neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) are often used for patients requiringprolonged mechanical ventilation. Reports of persistent paralysis after thediscontinuance of these drugs have most often involved aminosteroid-based NMBAs suchas vecuronium bromide, especially when used in conjunction with corticosteroids.Atracurium besylate, a short-acting benzylisoquinolinium NMBA that is eliminatedindependently of renal or hepatic function, has also been associated with persistentparalysis, but only when used with corticosteroids. We report a case ofatracurium-related paralysis persisting for approximately 50 hours in a patient whowas not treated with corticosteroids.
8638206	CID	atracurium	paralysis
8638206	CID	vecuronium bromide	paralysis

8669433|t|Habitual use of acetaminophen as a risk factor for chronic renal failure: acomparison with phenacetin.Six epidemiologic studies in the United States and Europe indicate that habitualuse of phenacetin is associated with the development of chronic renal failure andend-stage renal disease (ESRD), with a relative risk in the range of 4 to 19. As aresult of these and other studies, phenacetin has now been withdrawn from the marketin most countries. However, three case control studies, one each in North Carolina,northern Maryland, and West Berlin, Germany, showed that habitual use ofacetaminophen is also associated with chronic renal failure and ESRD, with arelative risk in the range of 2 to 4. These studies suggest that both phenacetin andacetaminophen may contribute to the burden of ESRD, with the risk of the latterbeing somewhat less than that of the former. This apparent difference in risk maynot be due to differences in nephrotoxic potential of the drugs themselves. A lowerrelative risk would be expected for acetaminophen if the risk of both drugs incombination with other analgesics was higher than the risk of either agent alone.Thus, acetaminophen has been used both as a single agent and in combination withother analgesics, whereas phenacetin was available only in combinations. Thepossibility that habitual use of acetaminophen alone increases the risk of ESRD hasnot been clearly demonstrated, but cannot be dismissed.
8669433	CID	phenacetin	chronic renal failure

8690168|t|Reduction of heparan sulphate-associated anionic sites in the glomerular basementmembrane of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy.Heparan sulphate-associated anionic sites in the glomerular basement membrane werestudied in rats 8 months after induction of diabetes by streptozotocin and in age-adn sex-matched control rats, employing the cationic dye cuprolinic blue.Morphometric analysis at the ultrastructural level was performed using acomputerized image processor. The heparan sulphate specificity of the cuprolinicblue staining was demonstrated by glycosaminoglycan-degrading enzymes, showing thatpretreatment of the sections with heparitinase abolished all staining, whereaschondroitinase ABC had no effect. The majority of anionic sites (74% in diabetic and81% in control rats) were found within the lamina rara externa of the glomerularbasement membrane. A minority of anionic sites were scattered throughout the laminadensa and lamina rara interna, and were significantly smaller than those in thelamina rara externa of the glomerular basement membrane (p<0.001 and p<0.01for diabetic and control rats, respectively). Diabetic rats progressively developedalbuminuria reaching 40.3 (32.2-62.0) mg/24 h after 8 months in contrast to thecontrol animals (0.8 (0.2-0.9) mg/24 h, p<0.002). At the same time, the number ofheparan sulphate anionic sites and the total anionic site surface (number of anionicsites x mean anionic site surface) in the lamina rara externa of the glomerularbasement membrane was reduced by 19% (p<0.021) and by 26% (p<0.02),respectively. Number and total anionic site surface in the remaining part of theglomerular basement membrane (lamina densa and lamina rara interna) were notsignificantly changed. We conclude that in streptozotocin-diabetic rats with anincreased urinary albumin excretion, a reduced heparan sulphate chargebarrier/density is found at the lamina rara externa of the glomerular basementmembrane.
8690168	CID	streptozotocin	diabetic nephropathy

8739323|t|Effect of some anticancer drugs and combined chemotherapy on renal toxicity.The nephrotoxic action of anticancer drugs such as nitrogranulogen (NG),methotrexate (MTX), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and cyclophosphamide (CY) administeredalone or in combination [MTX + 5-FU + CY (CMF)] was evaluated in experiments onWistar rats. After drug administration, creatinine concentrations in the plasma andin the urine of the rats were determined, as well as creatinine clearance.Histopathologic evaluation of the kidneys was also performed. After MTXadministration a significant increase (p = 0.0228) in the plasma creatinineconcentration and a significant (p = 0.0001) decrease in creatinine clearance wasnoted compared to controls. After the administration of NG, 5-FU and CY neither astatistically significant increase in creatinine concentration nor an increase increatinine clearance was observed compared to the group receiving no cytostatics.Following polytherapy according to the CMF regimen, a statistically significantdecrease (p = 0.0343) in creatinine clearance was found, but creatinineconcentration did not increase significantly compared to controls. CY causedhemorrhagic cystitis in 40% of rats, but it did not cause this complication whencombined with 5-FU and MTX. Histologic changes were found in rat kidneys afteradministration of MTX, CY and NG, while no such change was observed after 5-FU andjoint administration of MTX + 5-FU + CY compared to controls. Our studies indicatethat nephrotoxicity of MTX + 5-FU + CY administered jointly is lower than inmonotherapy.
8739323	CID	cyclophosphamide	hemorrhagic
8739323	CID	cyclophosphamide	cystitis

8752018|t|Lithium-associated cognitive and functional deficits reduced by a switch todivalproex sodium: a case series.BACKGROUND: Lithium remains a first-line treatment for the acute and maintenancetreatment of bipolar disorder. Although much has been written about the managementof the more common adverse effects of lithium, such as polyuria and tremor, moresubtle lithium side effects such as cognitive deficits, loss of creativity, andfunctional impairments remain understudied. This report summarizes our experience inswitching bipolar patients from lithium to divalproex sodium to alleviate suchcognitive and functional impairments. METHOD: Open, case series design. RESULTS: Wereport seven cases where substitution of lithium, either fully or partially, withdivalproex sodium was extremely helpful in reducing the cognitive, motivational, orcreative deficits attributed to lithium in our bipolar patients. CONCLUSION: In thispreliminary report, divalproex sodium was a superior alternative to lithium inbipolar patients experiencing cognitive deficits, loss of creativity, and functionalimpairments.
8752018	CID	Lithium	cognitive and functional deficits

9390208|t|Treatment of previously treated metastatic breast cancer by mitoxantrone and48-hour continuous infusion of high-dose 5-FU and leucovorin (MFL): low palliativebenefit and high treatment-related toxicity.For previously treated advanced breast cancer, there is no standard second-linetherapy. Combination chemotherapy with mitoxantrone, high-dose 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)and leucovorin (MFL regimen) had been reported as an effective and well toleratedregimen. From October 1993 to November 1995, we treated 13 patients with previouslychemotherapy-treated metastatic breast cancer by mitoxantrone, 12 mg/m2, on day 1and continuous infusion of 5-FU, 3000 mg/m2, together with leucovorin, 300 mg/m2,for 48 h from day 1 to 2. Each course of chemotherapy was given every 4 weeks. Mostof these patients had more than two metastatic sites, with lung metastasispredominant. Seven patients had been treated with anthracycline. Seven patients hadpreviously received radiotherapy and seven had received hormone therapy. Mediannumber of courses of MFL regimen given was six and the median cumulative dose ofmitoxantrone was 68.35 mg/m2. One patient had complete response, seven had stabledisease, none had partial response and five had progressive disease. The overallobjective response rate was 7.6%. The median follow-up period was 14 months. Mediansurvival was 16 months. Median progression-free survival was 5 months. A completeresponder had relapse-free survival up to 17 months. Major toxicities werecardiotoxicity and leukopenia. Eight patients were dead in the last follow-up; twoof them died of treatment-related toxicity. The MFL regimen achieves littlepalliative benefit and induces severe toxicity at a fairly high rate. Administrationof this regimen to breast cancer patients who have been treated by chemotherapy andthose with impaired heart function requires careful attention.
9390208	CID	MFL	impaired heart function
9390208	CID	MFL	leukopenia

9406968|t|Upregulation of the expression of vasopressin gene in the paraventricular andsupraoptic nuclei of the lithium-induced diabetes insipidus rat.The expression of arginine vasopressin (AVP) gene in the paraventricular (PVN) andsupraoptic nuclei (SON) was investigated in rats with lithium (Li)-induced polyuria,using in situ hybridization histochemistry and radioimmunoassay. The male Wistarrats consuming a diet that contained LiCl (60 mmol/kg) for 4 weeks developed markedpolyuria. The Li-treated rats produced a large volume of hypotonic urine with lowionic concentrations. Plasma sodium concentrations were found to be slightlyincreased in the Li-treated rats compared with those in controls. Plasmaconcentration of AVP and transcripts of AVP gene in the PVN and SON weresignificantly increased in the Li-treated rats compared with controls. These resultssuggest that dehydration and/or the activation of visceral afferent inputs maycontribute to the elevation of plasma AVP and the upregulation of AVP geneexpression in the PVN and the SON of the Li-induced diabetes insipidus rat.
9406968	CID	LiCl	polyuria

9587734|t|Suxamethonium-induced cardiac arrest and death following 5 days of immobilization.The present report describes a case of cardiac arrest and subsequent death as aresult of hyperkalaemia following the use of suxamethonium in a 23-year-old Malawianwoman. Five days after the onset of the symptoms of meningitis, the patientaspirated stomach contents and needed endotracheal intubation. Forty seconds afterinjection of suxamethonium, bradycardia and cardiac arrest occurred. Attempts toresuscitate the patient were not successful. The serum level of potassium wasobserved to be 8.4 mequiv L-1. Apart from the reduction in the patient's levelof consciousness, there were no signs of motor neurone damage or of any of the otherknown predisposing conditions for hyperkalaemia following the administration ofsuxamethonium. It is postulated that her death was caused by hypersensitivity tosuxamethonium, associated with her 5-day immobilization.
9587734	CID	Suxamethonium	hypersensitivity
9587734	CID	Suxamethonium	cardiac arrest
9587734	CID	Suxamethonium	hyperkalaemia
9587734	CID	Suxamethonium	bradycardia

9698967|t|An unusual toxic reaction to axillary block by mepivacaine with adrenaline.An increase in blood pressure, accompanied by atrial fibrillation, agitation,incomprehensible shouts and loss of consciousness, was observed in an elderly, ASAclassification group II, cardiovascularly medicated male, 12 min after performanceof axillary block with mepivacaine 850 mg containing adrenaline 0.225 mg, forcorrection of Dupuytren's contracture. After intravenous administration oflabetalol, metoprolol and midazolam the patient's condition improved, and 15min later he woke up. The block was successful and surgery was conducted asscheduled despite persisting atrial fibrillation. Postoperatively, the patientrefused DC cardioversion and was treated medically. Both the temporal relationshipof events and the response to treatment suggest that a rapid systemic absorption ofmepivacaine with adrenaline and/or interaction of these drugs with thepatient's cardiovascular medications were responsible for the perioperativecomplications.
9698967	CID	adrenaline	atrial fibrillation
9698967	CID	mepivacaine	atrial fibrillation
9698967	CID	mepivacaine	increase in blood pressure
9698967	CID	adrenaline	increase in blood pressure

9855119|t|Clinical and histopathologic examination of renal allografts treated withtacrolimus (FK506) for at least one year.BACKGROUND: We clinically and pathologically analyzed renal allografts from 1 9renal transplant patients treated with tacrolimus (FK506) for more than 1 year.METHODS: Twenty-six renal allograft biopsy specimens from 1 9 renal transplantpatients who underwent transplantations between 1991 and 1993 were evaluated.Thirteen biopsies were performed from stable functioning renal allografts withinformed consent (nonepisode biopsy) and the other 13 were from dysfunctional renalallografts with a clinical indication for biopsy (episode biopsy). RESULTS: The mainpathologic diagnoses (some overlap) were acute rejection (AR; n = 4), chronicrejection (CR; n=5), AR+CR (n =4), recurrent IgA nephropathy (n =5), normal findings(n =2), minimal-type chronic FK506 nephropathy (n = 9), and mild-type FK506nephropathy (n = 11). Of the nonepisode biopsies, 7 and 4 biopsies showedminimal-type and mild-type chronic FK506 nephropathy, respectively. Chronic FK506nephropathy consisted of rough and foamy tubular vacuolization (5 biopsies),arteriolopathy (angiodegeneration of the arteriolar wall; 20 biopsies), focalsegmental glomerulosclerosis (4 biopsies) and the striped form of interstitialfibrosis (11 biopsies). The serum creatinine levels of patients in the mild-typechronic FK506 nephropathy group, which included 7 episode biopsies, werestatistically higher than those in the minimum-type chronic FK506-nephropathy group(P< 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that chronic FK506 nephropathyconsists primarily of arteriolopathy manifesting as insudative hyalinosis of thearteriolar wall, and suggests that mild-type chronic FK506 nephropathy is acondition which may lead to deterioration of renal allograft function.
9855119	CID	tacrolimus	focal segmental glomerulosclerosis

9869257|t|Memory facilitation and stimulation of endogenous nerve growth factor synthesis bythe acetylcholine releaser PG-9.The effects of PG-9 (3alpha-tropyl 2-(p-bromophenyl)propionate), the acetylcholinereleaser, on memory processes and nerve growth factor (NGF) synthesis wereevaluated. In the mouse passive-avoidance test, PG-9 (10-30 mg/kg, i.p.),administered 20 min before the training session, prevented amnesia induced by boththe non selective antimuscarinic drug scopolamine and the M1-selective antagonistS-(-)-ET-126. In the same experimental conditions, PG-9 (5-20 microg per mouse,i.c.v.) was also able to prevent antimuscarine-induced amnesia, demonstrating acentral localization of the activity. At the highest effective doses, PG-9 did notproduce any collateral symptoms as revealed by the Irwin test, and it did not modifyspontaneous motility and inspection activity, as revealed by the hole-board test.PG-9 was also able to increase the amount of NGF secreted in vitro by astrocytes ina dose-dependent manner. The maximal NGF contents obtained by PG-9 were 17.6-fold ofthe control value. During culture, no morphological changes were found at effectiveconcentrations of PG-9. The current work indicates the ability of PG-9 to inducebeneficial effects on cognitive processes and stimulate activity of NGF synthesis inastroglial cells. Therefore, PG-9 could represent a potential useful drug able toimprove the function of impaired cognitive processes.
9869257	CID	S-(-)-ET-126	amnesia
9869257	CID	scopolamine	amnesia

10342929|t|Angioedema due to ACE inhibitors: common and inadequately diagnosed.The estimated incidence of angioedema during angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)inhibitor treatment is between 1 and 7 per thousand patients. This potentiallyserious adverse effect is often preceded by minor manifestations that may serve as awarning.
10342929	CID	ACE inhibitors	Angioedema

10457883|t|Recurarization in the recovery room.A case of recurarization in the recovery room is reported. Accumulation ofatracurium in the intravenous line led to recurarization after flushing the line inthe recovery room. A respiratory arrest with severe desaturation and bradycardiaoccurred. Circumstances leading to this event and the mechanisms enabling aneuromuscular blockade to occur, following the administration of a small dose ofrelaxant, are discussed.
10457883	CID	atracurium	respiratory arrest
10457883	CID	atracurium	bradycardia
10457883	CID	atracurium	desaturation

10739826|t|Recurrent use of newer oral contraceptives and the risk of venous thromboembolism.The epidemiological studies that assessed the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE)associated with newer oral contraceptives (OC) did not distinguish between patternsof OC use, namely first-time users, repeaters and switchers. Data from aTransnational case-control study were used to assess the risk of VTE for the latterpatterns of use, while accounting for duration of use. Over the period 1993-1996,551 cases of VTE were identified in Germany and the UK along with 2066 controls.Totals of 128 cases and 650 controls were analysed for repeat use and 135 cases and622 controls for switching patterns. The adjusted rate ratio of VTE for repeat usersof third generation OC was 0.6 (95% CI:0.3-1.2) relative to repeat users of secondgeneration pills, whereas it was 1.3 (95% CI:0.7-2.4) for switchers from second tothird generation pills relative to switchers from third to second generation pills.We conclude that second and third generation agents are associated with equivalentrisks of VTE when the same agent is used repeatedly after interruption periods orwhen users are switched between the two generations of pills. These analyses suggestthat the higher risk observed for the newer OC in other studies may be the result ofinadequate comparisons of pill users with different patterns of pill use.
10739826	CID	oral contraceptives	venous thromboembolism

10791295|t|Development of apomorphine-induced aggressive behavior: comparison of adult maleand female Wistar rats.The development of apomorphine-induced (1.0 mg/kg s.c. once daily) aggressivebehavior of adult male and female Wistar rats obtained from the same breeder wasstudied in two consecutive sets. In male animals, repeated apomorphine treatmentinduced a gradual development of aggressive behavior as evidenced by the increasedintensity of aggressiveness and shortened latency before the first attack toward theopponent. In female rats, only a weak tendency toward aggressiveness was found. Inconclusion, the present study demonstrates gender differences in the development ofthe apomorphine-induced aggressive behavior and indicates that the female rats donot fill the validation criteria for use in this method.
10791295	CID	apomorphine	aggressive behavior

11147747|t|Serotonergic antidepressants and urinary incontinence.Many new serotonergic antidepressants have been introduced over the past decade.Although urinary incontinence is listed as one side effect of these drugs in theirpackage inserts there is only one report in the literature. This concerns 2 malepatients who experienced incontinence while taking venlafaxine. In the present paperthe authors describe 2 female patients who developed incontinence secondary to theselective serotonin reuptake inhibitors paroxetine and sertraline, as well as athird who developed this side effect on venlafaxine. In 2 of the 3 cases thepatients were also taking lithium carbonate and beta-blockers, both of which couldhave contributed to the incontinence. Animal studies suggest that incontinencesecondary to serotonergic antidepressants could be mediated by the 5HT4 receptorsfound on the bladder. Further research is needed to delineate the frequency of thistroubling side effect and how best to treat it.
11147747	CID	lithium carbonate	urinary incontinence
11147747	CID	sertraline	urinary incontinence
11147747	CID	Serotonergic antidepressants	urinary incontinence
11147747	CID	paroxetine	urinary incontinence
11147747	CID	venlafaxine	urinary incontinence

11198499|t|Hypotension following the initiation of tizanidine in a patient treated with anangiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor for chronic hypertension.Centrally acting alpha-2 adrenergic agonists are one of several pharmacologicagents used in the treatment of spasticity related to disorders of the centralnervous system. In addition to their effects on spasticity, certain adversecardiorespiratory effects have been reported. Adults chronically treated withangiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors may have a limited ability to respond tohypotension when the sympathetic response is simultaneously blocked. The authorspresent a 10-year-old boy chronically treated with lisinopril, an angiotensinconverting enzyme inhibitor, to control hypertension who developed hypotensionfollowing the addition of tizanidine, an alpha-2 agonist, for the treatment ofspasticity. The possible interaction of tizanidine and other antihypertensive agentsshould be kept in mind when prescribing therapy to treat either hypertension orspasticity in such patients.
11198499	CID	tizanidine	Hypotension
11198499	CID	lisinopril	Hypotension

11391224|t|Peritubular capillary basement membrane reduplication in allografts and nativekidney disease: a clinicopathologic study of 278 consecutive renal specimens.BACKGROUND: An association has been found between transplant glomerulopathy (TG)and reduplication of peritubular capillary basement membranes (PTCR). Although suchan association is of practical and theoretical importance, only one prospectivestudy has tried to confirm it. METHODS: We examined 278 consecutive renal specimens(from 135 transplants and 143 native kidneys) for ultrastructural evidence of PTCR.In addition to renal allografts with TG, we also examined grafts with acuterejection, recurrent glomerulonephritis, chronic allograft nephropathy and stablegrafts ("protocol biopsies"). Native kidney specimens included a widerange of glomerulopathies as well as cases of thrombotic microangiopathy, malignanthypertension, acute interstitial nephritis, and acute tubular necrosis. RESULTS: Wefound PTCR in 14 of 15 cases of TG, in 7 transplant biopsy specimens without TG, andin 13 of 143 native kidney biopsy specimens. These 13 included cases of malignanthypertension, thrombotic microangiopathy, lupus nephritis, Henoch-Schonleinnephritis, crescentic glomerulonephritis, and cocaine-related acute renal failure.Mild PTCR in allografts without TG did not predict renal failure or significantproteinuria after follow-up periods of between 3 months and 1 year. CONCLUSIONS: Weconclude that in transplants, there is a strong association between well-developedPTCR and TG, while the significance of mild PTCR and its predictive value in theabsence of TG is unclear. PTCR also occurs in certain native kidney diseases, thoughthe association is not as strong as that for TG. We suggest that repeatedendothelial injury, including immunologic injury, may be the cause of this lesionboth in allografts and native kidneys.
11391224	CID	cocaine	acute renal failure

11426838|t|Conformationally restricted analogs of BD1008 and an antisenseoligodeoxynucleotide targeting sigma1 receptors produce anti-cocaine effects inmice.Cocaine's ability to interact with sigma receptors suggests that theseproteins mediate some of its behavioral effects. Therefore, three novel sigmareceptor ligands with antagonist activity were evaluated in Swiss Webster mice:BD1018 (3S-1-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-1,4-diazabicyclo[4.3.0]nonane), BD1063(1-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-4-methylpiperazine), and LR132(1R,2S-(+)-cis-N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexylamine).Competition binding assays demonstrated that all three compounds have highaffinities for sigma1 receptors. The three compounds vary in their affinities forsigma2 receptors and exhibit negligible affinities for dopamine, opioid, GABA(A) andNMDA receptors. In behavioral studies, pre-treatment of mice with BD1018, BD1063, orLR132 significantly attenuated cocaine-induced convulsions and lethality. Moreover,post-treatment with LR132 prevented cocaine-induced lethality in a significantproportion of animals. In contrast to the protection provided by the putativeantagonists, the well-characterized sigma receptor agonist di-o-tolylguanidine (DTG)and the novel sigma receptor agonist BD1031(3R-1-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-1,4-diazabicyclo[4.3.0]nonane) each worsened thebehavioral toxicity of cocaine. At doses where alone, they produced no significanteffects on locomotion, BD1018, BD1063 and LR132 significantly attenuated thelocomotor stimulatory effects of cocaine. To further validate the hypothesis thatthe anti-cocaine effects of the novel ligands involved antagonism of sigmareceptors, an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide against sigma1 receptors was also shownto significantly attenuate the convulsive and locomotor stimulatory effects ofcocaine. Together, the data suggests that functional antagonism of sigma receptorsis capable of attenuating a number of cocaine-induced behaviors.
11426838	CID	cocaine	convulsions

11569530|t|Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic assessment of the effects of E4031, cisapride,terfenadine and terodiline on monophasic action potential duration in dog.1. Torsades de pointes (TDP) is a potentially fatal ventricular tachycardiaassociated with increases in QT interval and monophasic action potential duration(MAPD). TDP is a side-effect that has led to withdrawal of several drugs from themarket (e.g. terfenadine and terodiline). 2. The potential of compounds to cause TDPwas evaluated by monitoring their effects on MAPD in dog. Four compounds known toincrease QT interval and cause TDP were investigated: terfenadine, terodiline,cisapride and E4031. On the basis that only free drug in the systemic circulationwill elicit a pharmacological response target, free concentrations in plasma wereselected to mimic the free drug exposures in man. Infusion regimens were designedthat rapidly achieved and maintained target-free concentrations of these drugs inplasma and data on the relationship between free concentration and changes in MAPDwere obtained for these compounds. 3. These data indicate that the free ED50 inplasma for terfenadine (1.9 nM), terodiline (76 nM), cisapride (11 nM) and E4031(1.9 nM) closely correlate with the free concentration in man causing QT effects.For compounds that have shown TDP in the clinic (terfenadine, terodiline, cisapride)there is little differentiation between the dog ED50 and the efficacious free plasmaconcentrations in man (< 10-fold) reflecting their limited safety margins. Thesedata underline the need to maximize the therapeutic ratio with respect to TDP inpotential development candidates and the importance of using free drugconcentrations in pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic studies.
11569530	CID	terfenadine	Torsades de pointes
11569530	CID	cisapride	Torsades de pointes
11569530	CID	terodiline	Torsades de pointes

11587867|t|Fatal myeloencephalopathy due to accidental intrathecal vincristin administration:a report of two cases.We report on two fatal cases of accidental intrathecal vincristine instillation ina 5-year old girl with recurrent acute lymphoblastic leucemia and a 57-year old manwith lymphoblastic lymphoma. The girl died seven days, the man four weeks afterintrathecal injection of vincristine. Clinically, the onset was characterized by thesigns of opistothonus, sensory and motor dysfunction and ascending paralysis.Histological and immunohistochemical investigations (HE-LFB, CD-68, Neurofilament)revealed degeneration of myelin and axons as well as pseudocystic transformation inareas exposed to vincristine, accompanied by secondary changes with numerousprominent macrophages. The clinical course and histopathological results of the twocases are presented. A review of all reported cases in the literature is given. Abetter controlled regimen for administering vincristine and intrathecal chemotherapyis recommended.
11587867	CID	vincristin	opistothonus dysfunction
11587867	CID	vincristin	degeneration of axons
11587867	CID	vincristin	degeneration of myelin

11679859|t|Intravenous administration of prochlorperazine by 15-minute infusion versus2-minute bolus does not affect the incidence of akathisia: a prospective,randomized, controlled trial.STUDY OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare the rate of akathisia after administrationof intravenous prochlorperazine as a 2-minute bolus or 15-minute infusion. METHODS:We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind study in the emergencydepartment of a central-city teaching hospital. Patients aged 18 years or oldertreated with prochlorperazine for headache, nausea, or vomiting were eligible forinclusion. Study participants were randomized to receive 10 mg of prochlorperazineadministered intravenously by means of 2-minute push (bolus group) or 10 mg dilutedin 50 mL of normal saline solution administered by means of intravenous infusionduring a 15-minute period (infusion group). The main outcome was the number of studyparticipants experiencing akathisia within 60 minutes of administration. Akathisiawas defined as either a spontaneous report of restlessness or agitation or a changeof 2 or more in the patient-reported akathisia rating scale and a change of at least1 in the investigator-observed akathisia rating scale. The intensity of headache andnausea was measured with a 100-mm visual analog scale. RESULTS: One hundred patientswere enrolled. One study participant was excluded after protocol violation.Seventy-three percent (73/99) of the study participants were treated for headacheand 70% (70/99) for nausea. In the bolus group, 26.0% (13/50) had akathisia comparedwith 32.7% (16/49) in the infusion group (Delta=-6.7%; 95% confidence interval [CI]-24.6% to 11.2%). The difference between the bolus and infusion groups in thepercentage of participants who saw a 50% reduction in their headache intensitywithin 30 minutes was 11.8% (95% CI -9.6% to 33.3%). The difference in thepercentage of patients with a 50% reduction in their nausea was 12.6% (95% CI -4.6%to 29.8%). CONCLUSION: A 50% reduction in the incidence of akathisia whenprochlorperazine was administered by means of 15-minute intravenous infusion versusa 2-minute intravenous push was not detected. The efficacy of prochlorperazine inthe treatment of headache and nausea likewise did not appear to be affected by therate of administration, although no formal statistical comparisons were made.
11679859	CID	prochlorperazine	akathisia

12041669|t|Antithymocyte globulin in the treatment of D-penicillamine-induced aplasticanemia.A patient who received antithymocyte globulin therapy for aplastic anemia due toD-penicillamine therapy is described. Bone marrow recovery and peripheral bloodrecovery were complete 1 month and 3 months, respectively, after treatment, andblood transfusion or other therapies were not necessary in a follow-up period ofmore than 2 years. Use of antithymocyte globulin may be the optimal treatment ofD-penicillamine-induced aplastic anemia.
12041669	CID	D-penicillamine	aplastic anemia

12198388|t|The relationship between hippocampal acetylcholine release and cholinergicconvulsant sensitivity in withdrawal seizure-prone and withdrawal seizure-resistantselected mouse lines.BACKGROUND: The septo-hippocampal cholinergic pathway has been implicated inepileptogenesis, and genetic factors influence the response to cholinergic agents,but limited data are available on cholinergic involvement in alcohol withdrawalseverity. Thus, the relationship between cholinergic activity and responsiveness andalcohol withdrawal was investigated in a genetic animal model of ethanol withdrawalseverity. METHODS: Cholinergic convulsant sensitivity was examined in alcohol-na veWithdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) and-Resistant (WSR) mice. Animals were administerednicotine, carbachol, or neostigmine via timed tail vein infusion, and the latenciesto onset of tremor and clonus were recorded and converted to threshold dose. We alsoused microdialysis to measure basal and potassium-stimulated acetylcholine (ACh)release in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Potassium was applied by reversedialysis twice, separated by 75 min. Hippocampal ACh also was measured duringtesting for handling-induced convulsions. RESULTS: Sensitivity to several convulsionendpoints induced by nicotine, carbachol, and neostigmine were significantly greaterin WSR versus WSP mice. In microdialysis experiments, the lines did not differ inbasal release of ACh, and 50 mM KCl increased ACh output in both lines of mice.However, the increase in release of ACh produced by the first application of KCl was2-fold higher in WSP versus WSR mice. When hippocampal ACh was measured duringtesting for handling-induced convulsions, extracellular ACh was significantlyelevated (192%) in WSP mice, but was nonsignificantly elevated (59%) in WSR mice.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that differences in cholinergic activity andpostsynaptic sensitivity to cholinergic convulsants may be associated with ethanolwithdrawal severity and implicate cholinergic mechanisms in alcohol withdrawal.Specifically, WSP mice may have lower sensitivity to cholinergic convulsantscompared with WSR because of postsynaptic receptor desensitization brought on byhigher activity of cholinergic neurons.
12198388	CID	neostigmine	seizure
12198388	CID	nicotine	seizure
12198388	CID	carbachol	seizure

12574103|t|Prenatal dexamethasone programs hypertension and renal injury in the rat.Dexamethasone is frequently administered to the developing fetus to acceleratepulmonary development. The purpose of the present study was to determine if prenataldexamethasone programmed a progressive increase in blood pressure and renal injuryin rats. Pregnant rats were given either vehicle or 2 daily intraperitonealinjections of dexamethasone (0.2 mg/kg body weight) on gestational days 11 and 12,13 and 14, 15 and 16, 17 and 18, or 19 and 20. Offspring of rats administereddexamethasone on days 15 and 16 gestation had a 20% reduction in glomerular numbercompared with control at 6 to 9 months of age (22 527+/-509 versus 28 050+/-561,P<0.05), which was comparable to the percent reduction in glomeruli measured at 3weeks of age. Six- to 9-month old rats receiving prenatal dexamethasone on days 17and 18 of gestation had a 17% reduction in glomeruli (23 380+/-587) compared withcontrol rats (P<0.05). Male rats that received prenatal dexamethasone on days 15and 16, 17 and 18, and 13 and 14 of gestation had elevated blood pressures at 6months of age; the latter group did not have a reduction in glomerular number. Adultrats given dexamethasone on days 15 and 16 of gestation had more glomeruli withglomerulosclerosis than control rats. This study shows that prenatal dexamethasonein rats results in a reduction in glomerular number, glomerulosclerosis, andhypertension when administered at specific points during gestation. Hypertension wasobserved in animals that had a reduction in glomeruli as well as in a group that didnot have a reduction in glomerular number, suggesting that a reduction in glomerularnumber is not the sole cause for the development of hypertension.
12574103	CID	dexamethasone	renal injury
12574103	CID	dexamethasone	hypertension

12615818|t|The risk of venous thromboembolism in women prescribed cyproterone acetate incombination with ethinyl estradiol: a nested cohort analysis and case-control study.BACKGROUND: Cyproterone acetate combined with ethinyl estradiol (CPA/EE) islicensed in the UK for the treatment of women with acne and hirsutism and is also atreatment option for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Previous studies havedemonstrated an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) associated withCPA/EE compared with conventional combined oral contraceptives (COCs). We believethe results of those studies may have been affected by residual confounding.METHODS: Using the General Practice Research Database we conducted a cohort analysisand case-control study nested within a population of women aged between 15 and 39years with acne, hirsutism or PCOS to estimate the risk of VTE associated withCPA/EE. RESULTS: The age-adjusted incidence rate ratio for CPA/EE versusconventional COCs was 2.20 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.35-3.58]. Using as thereference group women who were not using oral contraception, had no recent pregnancyor menopausal symptoms, the case-control analysis gave an adjusted odds ratio(OR(adj)) of 7.44 (95% CI 3.67-15.08) for CPA/EE use compared with an OR(adj) of2.58 (95% CI 1.60-4.18) for use of conventional COCs. CONCLUSIONS: We havedemonstrated an increased risk of VTE associated with the use of CPA/EE in womenwith acne, hirsutism or PCOS although residual confounding by indication cannot beexcluded.
12615818	CID	cyproterone acetate	venous thromboembolism
12615818	CID	ethinyl estradiol	venous thromboembolism

12789195|t|Pseudoacromegaly induced by the long-term use of minoxidil.Acromegaly is an endocrine disorder caused by chronic excessive growth hormonesecretion from the anterior pituitary gland. Significant disfiguring changes occuras a result of bone, cartilage, and soft tissue hypertrophy, including thethickening of the skin, coarsening of facial features, and cutis verticis gyrata.Pseudoacromegaly, on the other hand, is the presence of similar acromegaloidfeatures in the absence of elevated growth hormone or insulin-like growth factorlevels. We present a patient with pseudoacromegaly that resulted from the long-termuse of minoxidil at an unusually high dose. This is the first case report ofpseudoacromegaly as a side effect of minoxidil use.
12789195	CID	minoxidil	Acromegaly

12820454|t|Combined androgen blockade-induced anemia in prostate cancer patients without boneinvolvement.BACKGROUND: To determine the onset and extent of combined androgen blockade(CAB)-induced anemia in prostate cancer patients without bone involvement. PATIENTSAND METHODS: Forty-two patients with biopsy-proven prostatic adenocarcinoma [26 withstage C (T3N0M0) and 16 with stage D1 (T3N1M0)] were included in this study. Allpatients received CAB [leuprolide acetate (LHRH-A) 3.75 mg, intramuscularly, every28 days plus 250 mg flutamide, tid, per Os] and were evaluated for anemia byphysical examination and laboratory tests at baseline and 4 subsequent intervals (1,2, 3 and 6 months post-CAB). Hb, PSA and Testosterone measurements were recorded.Patients with stage D2-3 disease, abnormal hemoglobin level or renal and liverfunction tests that were higher than the upper limits were excluded from the study.The duration of the study was six months. RESULTS: The mean hemoglobin (Hb) levelswere significantly declined in all patients from baseline of 14.2 g/dl to 14.0 g/dl,13.5 g/dl, 13.2 g/dl and 12.7 g/dl at 1, 2, 3 and 6 months post-CAB, respectively.Severe and clinically evident anemia of Hb < 11 g/dl with clinical symptoms wasdetected in 6 patients (14.3%). This CAB-induced anemia was normochromic andnormocytic. At six months post-CAB, patients with severe anemia had a Hb mean valueof 10.2 +/- 0.1 g/dl (X +/- SE), whereas the other patients had mild anemia with Hbmean value of 13.2 +/- 0.17 (X +/- SE). The development of severe anemia at 6 monthspost-CAB was predictable by the reduction of Hb baseline value of more than 2.5 g/dlafter 3 months of CAB (p = 0.01). The development of severe CAB-induced anemia inprostate cancer patients did not correlate with T baseline values (T < 3 ng/mlversus T > or = 3 ng/ml), with age (< 76 yrs versus > or = 76 yrs), andclinical stage (stage C versus stage D1). Severe and clinically evident anemia waseasily corrected by subcutaneous injections (3 times/week for 1 month) ofrecombinant erythropoietin (rHuEPO-beta). CONCLUSION: Our data suggest thatrHuEPO-beta correctable CAB-induced anemia occurs in 14.3% of prostate cancerpatients after 6 months of therapy.
12820454	CID	leuprolide acetate	anemia
12820454	CID	flutamide	anemia

14657095|t|Reversible dilated cardiomyopathy related to amphotericin B therapy.We describe a patient who developed dilated cardiomyopathy and clinical congestiveheart failure after 2 months of therapy with amphotericin B (AmB) for disseminatedcoccidioidomycosis. His echocardiographic abnormalities and heart failure resolvedafter posaconazole was substituted for AmB. It is important to recognize the rareand potentially reversible toxicity of AmB.
14657095	CID	amphotericin B	heart failure
14657095	CID	amphotericin B	dilated cardiomyopathy

14765563|t|Risks of the consumption of beverages containing quinine.Although the United States Food and Drug Administration banned its use fornocturnal leg cramps due to lack of safety and efficacy, quinine is widely availablein beverages including tonic water and bitter lemon. Numerous anecdotal reportssuggest that products containing quinine may produce neurological complications,including confusion, altered mental status, seizures, and coma, particularly inolder women. Psychologists need to inquire about consumption of quinine-containingbeverages as part of an evaluation process.
14765563	CID	quinine	confusion
14765563	CID	quinine	coma
14765563	CID	quinine	seizures

15036754|t|Organophosphate-induced convulsions and prevention of neuropathological damages.Such organophosphorus (OP) compounds as diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP), sarinand soman are potent inhibitors of acetylcholinesterases (AChEs) andbutyrylcholinesterases (BChEs). The acute toxicity of OPs is the result of theirirreversible binding with AChEs in the central nervous system (CNS), which elevatesacetylcholine (ACh) levels. The protective action of subcutaneously (SC)administered antidotes or their combinations in DFP (2.0 mg/kg BW) intoxication wasstudied in 9-10-weeks-old Han-Wistar male rats. The rats received AChE reactivatorpralidoxime-2-chloride (2PAM) (30.0 mg/kg BW), anticonvulsant diazepam (2.0 mg/kgBW), A(1)-adenosine receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyl adenosine (CPA) (2.0 mg/kgBW), NMDA-receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (+-MK801 hydrogen maleate) (2.0mg/kg BW) or their combinations with cholinolytic drug atropine sulfate (50.0 mg/kgBW) immediately or 30 min after the single SC injection of DFP. The control ratsreceived atropine sulfate, but also saline and olive oil instead of other antidotesand DFP, respectively. All rats were terminated either 24 h or 3 weeks after the DFPinjection. The rats treated with DFP-atropine showed severe typical OP-inducedtoxicity signs. When CPA, diazepam or 2PAM was given immediately after DFP-atropine,these treatments prevented, delayed or shortened the occurrence of serious signs ofpoisoning. Atropine-MK801 did not offer any additional protection against DFPtoxicity. In conclusion, CPA, diazepam and 2PAM in combination with atropineprevented the occurrence of serious signs of poisoning and thus reduced the toxicityof DFP in rat.
15036754	CID	diisopropylfluorophosphate	convulsions

15145918|t|Differential modulation by estrogen of alpha2-adrenergic and I1-imidazolinereceptor-mediated hypotension in female rats.We have recently shown that estrogen negatively modulates the hypotensive effectof clonidine (mixed alpha2-/I1-receptor agonist) in female rats and implicates thecardiovascular autonomic control in this interaction. The present study investigatedwhether this effect of estrogen involves interaction with alpha2- and/orI1-receptors. Changes evoked by a single intraperitoneal injection of rilmenidine(600 microg/kg) or alpha-methyldopa (100 mg/kg), selective I1- and alpha2-receptoragonists, respectively, in blood pressure, hemodynamic variability, and locomotoractivity were assessed in radiotelemetered sham-operated and ovariectomized (Ovx)Sprague-Dawley female rats with or without 12-wk estrogen replacement. Three timedomain indexes of hemodynamic variability were employed: the standard deviation ofmean arterial pressure as a measure of blood pressure variability and the standarddeviation of beat-to-beat intervals (SDRR) and the root mean square of successivedifferences in R-wave-to-R-wave intervals as measures of heart rate variability. Insham-operated rats, rilmenidine or alpha-methyldopa elicited similar hypotensionthat lasted at least 5 h and was associated with reductions in standard deviation ofmean arterial pressure. SDRR was reduced only by alpha-methyldopa. Ovx significantlyenhanced the hypotensive response to alpha-methyldopa, in contrast to no effect onrilmenidine hypotension. The enhanced alpha-methyldopa hypotension in Ovx rats wasparalleled with further reduction in SDRR and a reduced locomotor activity. Estrogenreplacement (17beta-estradiol subcutaneous pellet, 14.2 microg/day, 12 wk) of Ovxrats restored the hemodynamic and locomotor effects of alpha-methyldopa tosham-operated levels. These findings suggest that estrogen downregulates alpha2- butnot I1-receptor-mediated hypotension and highlight a role for the cardiac autonomiccontrol in alpha-methyldopa-estrogen interaction.
15145918	CID	rilmenidine	hypotension
15145918	CID	alpha-methyldopa	hypotension

15233872|t|Cardioprotective effect of tincture of Crataegus on isoproterenol-inducedmyocardial infarction in rats.Tincture of Crataegus (TCR), an alcoholic extract of the berries of hawthorn(Crataegus oxycantha), is used in herbal and homeopathic medicine. The present studywas done to investigate the protective effect of TCR on experimentally inducedmyocardial infarction in rats. Pretreatment of TCR, at a dose of 0.5 mL/100 gbodyweight per day, orally for 30 days, prevented the increase in lipid peroxidationand activity of marker enzymes observed in isoproterenol-induced rats (85 mg kg(-1)s. c. for 2 days at an interval of 24 h). TCR prevented the isoproterenol-induceddecrease in antioxidant enzymes in the heart and increased the rate ofADP-stimulated oxygen uptake and respiratory coupling ratio. TCR protected againstpathological changes induced by isoproterenol in rat heart. The results show thatpretreatment with TCR may be useful in preventing the damage induced byisoproterenol in rat heart.
15233872	CID	isoproterenol	myocardial infarction

15458908|t|Safety and adverse effects associated with raloxifene: multiple outcomes ofraloxifene evaluation.OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect of raloxifene on major adverse events that occurwith postmenopausal estrogen therapy or tamoxifen. METHODS: The Multiple Outcomes ofRaloxifene Evaluation, a multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial, enrolled 7,705postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Women were randomly assigned to raloxifene60 mg/d or 120 mg/d or placebo. Outcomes included venous thromboembolism, cataracts,gallbladder disease, and endometrial hyperplasia or cancer. RESULTS: During a meanfollow-up of 3.3 years, raloxifene was associated with an increased risk for venousthromboembolism (relative risk [RR] 2.1; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.2-3.8). Theexcess event rate was 1.8 per 1,000 woman-years (95% CI -0.5-4.1), and the numberneeded to treat to cause 1 event was 170 (95% CI 100-582) over 3.3 years. Risk inthe raloxifene group was higher than in the placebo group for the first 2 years, butdecreased to about the same rate as in the placebo group thereafter. Raloxifene didnot increase risk for cataracts (RR 0.9; 95% CI 0.8-1.1), gallbladder disease (RR1.0; 95% CI 0.7-1.3), endometrial hyperplasia (RR 1.3; 95% CI 0.4-5.1), orendometrial cancer (RR 0.9; 95% CI 0.3-2.7). CONCLUSION: Raloxifene was associatedwith an increased risk for venous thromboembolism, but there was no increased riskfor cataracts, gallbladder disease, endometrial hyperplasia, or endometrial cancer.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: I
15458908	CID	raloxifene	venous thromboembolism

15737522|t|Ceftriaxone-associated biliary pseudolithiasis in paediatric surgical patients.It is well known that ceftriaxone leads to pseudolithiasis in some patients.Clinical and experimental studies also suggest that situations causing gallbladderdysfunction, such as fasting, may have a role for the development ofpseudolithiasis. In this study, we prospectively evaluated the incidence andclinical importance of pseudolithiasis in paediatric surgical patients receivingceftriaxone treatment, who often had to fast in the post-operative period. Fiftychildren who were given ceftriaxone were evaluated by serial abdominal sonograms. Ofthose, 13 (26%) developed biliary pathology. Comparison of the patients with orwithout pseudolithiasis revealed no significant difference with respect to age, sex,duration of the treatment and starvation variables. After cessation of thetreatment, pseudolithiasis resolved spontaneously within a short period. Theincidence of pseudolithiasis is not affected by fasting.
15737522	CID	Ceftriaxone	biliary pseudolithiasis

16005948|t|Evaluation of the anticocaine monoclonal antibody GNC92H2 as an immunotherapy forcocaine overdose.The illicit use of cocaine continues in epidemic proportions and treatment forcocaine overdose remains elusive. Current protein-based technology offers a newtherapeutic venue by which antibodies bind the drug in the blood stream,inactivating its toxic effects. The therapeutic potential of the anticocaineantibody GNC92H2 was examined using a model of cocaine overdose. Swiss albino miceprepared with intrajugular catheters were tested in photocell cages afteradministration of 93 mg/kg (LD50) of cocaine and GNC92H2 infusions ranging from 30to 190 mg/kg. GNC92H2 was delivered 30 min before, concomitantly or 3 min aftercocaine treatment. Significant blockade of cocaine toxicity was observed with thehigher dose of GNC92H2 (190 mg/kg), where premorbid behaviors were reduced up to40%, seizures up to 77% and death by 72%. Importantly, GNC92H2 prevented death evenpost-cocaine injection. The results support the important potential of GNC92H2 as atherapeutic tool against cocaine overdose.
16005948	CID	cocaine	seizures

16167916|t|The effects of short-term raloxifene therapy on fibrinolysis markers: TAFI, tPA,and PAI-1.BACKGROUND: Markers of fibrinolysis, thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor(TAFI), tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA), and plasminogen activatorinhibitor-1 (PAI-1) levels were studied for the evaluation of short-term effects ofraloxifene administration in postmenopausal women. METHODS: Thirty-ninepostmenopausal women with osteopenia or osteoporosis were included in thisprospective, controlled clinical study. Twenty-five women were given raloxifenehydrochloride (60 mg/day) plus calcium (500 mg/day). Age-matched controls (n = 14)were given only calcium. Plasma TAFI, tPA, and PAI-1 antigen levels were measured atbaseline and after 3 months of treatment by commercially available ELISA kits.Variations of individuals were assessed by Wilcoxon's test. Relationshipbetween those markers and demographic characteristics were investigated. RESULTS:Three months of raloxifene treatment was associated with a significant decrease inthe plasma TAFI antigen concentrations (16% change, P < 0.01), and a significantincrease in tPA antigen concentrations (25% change, P < 0.05). A significantcorrelation was found between baseline TAFI antigen concentrations and the durationof amenorrhea (P < 0.05; r = 0.33). CONCLUSION: We suggest that the increasedrisk of venous thromboembolism due to raloxifene treatment may be related toincreased tPA levels, but not TAFI levels.
16167916	CID	raloxifene	venous thromboembolism

16403073|t|Ketoconazole induced torsades de pointes without concomitant use of QTinterval-prolonging drug.Ketoconazole is not known to be proarrhythmic without concomitant use of QTinterval-prolonging drugs. We report a woman with coronary artery disease whodeveloped a markedly prolonged QT interval and torsades de pointes (TdP) aftertaking ketoconazole for treatment of fungal infection. Her QT interval returned tonormal upon withdrawal of ketoconazole. Genetic study did not find any mutation inher genes that encode cardiac IKr channel proteins. We postulate that by virtue ofits direct blocking action on IKr, ketoconazole alone may prolong QT interval andinduce TdP. This calls for attention when ketoconazole is administered to patientswith risk factors for acquired long QT syndrome.
16403073	CID	Ketoconazole	torsades de pointes
16403073	CID	Ketoconazole	prolonged QT interval

16755009|t|Pharmacological evidence for the potential of Daucus carota in the management ofcognitive dysfunctions.The present study was aimed at investigating the effects of Daucus carota seeds oncognitive functions, total serum cholesterol levels and brain cholinesteraseactivity in mice. The ethanolic extract of Daucus carota seeds (DCE) wasadministered orally in three doses (100, 200, 400 mg/kg) for seven successive daysto different groups of young and aged mice. Elevated plus maze and passive avoidanceapparatus served as the exteroceptive behavioral models for testing memory.Diazepam-, scopolamine- and ageing-induced amnesia served as the interoceptivebehavioral models. DCE (200, 400 mg/kg, p.o.) showed significant improvement inmemory scores of young and aged mice. The extent of memory improvement evoked by DCEwas 23% at the dose of 200 mg/kg and 35% at the dose of 400 mg/kg in young miceusing elevated plus maze. Similarly, significant improvements in memory scores wereobserved using passive avoidance apparatus and aged mice. Furthermore, DCE reversedthe amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) and diazepam (1 mg/kg, i.p.).Daucus carota extract (200, 400 mg/kg, p.o.) reduced significantly the brainacetylcholinesterase activity and cholesterol levels in young and aged mice. Theextent of inhibition of brain cholinesterase activity evoked by DCE at the dose of400 mg/kg was 22% in young and 19% in aged mice. There was a remarkable reduction intotal cholesterol level as well, to the extent of 23% in young and 21% in agedanimals with this dose of DCE. Therefore, DCE may prove to be a useful remedy forthe management of cognitive dysfunctions on account of its multifarious beneficialeffects such as, memory improving property, cholesterol lowering property andanticholinesterase activity.
16755009	CID	Diazepam	amnesia
16755009	CID	scopolamine	amnesia

16904497|t|Cauda equina syndrome after epidural steroid injection: a case report.OBJECTIVE: Conventional treatment methods of lumbusacral radiculopathy arephysical therapy, epidural steroid injections, oral medications, and spinalmanipulative therapy. Cauda equina syndrome is a rare complication of epiduralanesthesia. The following case is a report of cauda equina syndrome possibly causedby epidural injection of triamcinolone and bupivacaine. CLINICAL FEATURES: A50-year-old woman with low back and right leg pain was scheduled for epiduralsteroid injection. INTERVENTION AND OUTCOME: An 18-gauge Touhy needle was inserteduntil loss of resistance occurred at the L4-5 level. Spread of the contrast mediumwithin the epidural space was determined by radiographic imaging. After verifyingthe epidural space, bupivacaine and triamcinolone diacetate were injected. After theinjection, there was a reduction in radicular symptoms. Three hours later, shecomplained of perineal numbness and lower extremity weakness. The neurologicevaluation revealed loss of sensation in the saddle area and medial aspect of herright leg. There was a decrease in the perception of pinprick test. Deep-tendonreflexes were decreased especially in the right leg. She was unable to urinate. Thepatient's symptoms improved slightly over the next few hours. She had a gradualreturn of motor function and ability of feeling Foley catheter. All of the symptomswere completely resolved over the next 8 hours. CONCLUSION: Complications associatedwith epidural steroid injections are rare. Clinical examination and continuedvigilance for neurologic deterioration after epidural steroid injections isimportant.
16904497	CID	triamcinolone diacetate	Cauda equina syndrome
16904497	CID	bupivacaine	Cauda equina syndrome

16938416|t|High-dose testosterone is associated with atherosclerosis in postmenopausal women.OBJECTIVES: To study the long-term effects of androgen treatment onatherosclerosis in postmenopausal women. METHODS: In a population-based study in 513naturally postmenopausal women aged 54-67 years, we studied the association betweenself-reported intramuscularly administered high-dose estrogen-testosterone therapy(estradiol- and testosterone esters) and aortic atherosclerosis. Aorticatherosclerosis was diagnosed by radiographic detection of calcified deposits in theabdominal aorta, which have been shown to reflect intima atherosclerosis. Hormonetherapy users were compared with never users. RESULTS: Intramuscular hormone therapyuse for 1 year or longer was reported by 25 women. In almost half of these womensevere atherosclerosis of the aorta was present (n=11), while in women withouthormone use severe atherosclerosis of the aorta was present in less than 20% (OR3.1; 95% CI, 1.1-8.5, adjusted for age, years since menopause, smoking, and bodymass index). The association remained after additional adjustment for diabetes,cholesterol level, systolic blood pressure, or alcohol use. No association was foundfor hormone use less than 1 year. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that high-dosetestosterone therapy may adversely affect atherosclerosis in postmenopausal womenand indicate that androgen replacement in these women may not be harmless.
16938416	CID	testosterone	atherosclerosis

17147461|t|Sirolimus-associated proteinuria and renal dysfunction.Sirolimus is a novel immunosuppressant with potent antiproliferative actionsthrough its ability to inhibit the raptor-containing mammalian target of rapamycinprotein kinase. Sirolimus represents a major therapeutic advance in the preventionof acute renal allograft rejection and chronic allograft nephropathy. Its role inthe therapy of glomerulonephritis, autoimmunity, cystic renal diseases and renalcancer is under investigation. Because sirolimus does not share the vasomotor renaladverse effects exhibited by calcineurin inhibitors, it has been designated a'non-nephrotoxic drug'. However, clinical reports suggest that, under somecircumstances, sirolimus is associated with proteinuria and acute renal dysfunction.A common risk factor appears to be presence of pre-existing chronic renal damage.The mechanisms of sirolimus-associated proteinuria are multifactorial and may be dueto an increase in glomerular capillary pressure following calcineurin inhibitorwithdrawal. It has also been suggested that sirolimus directly causes increasedglomerular permeability/injury, but evidence for this mechanism is currentlyinconclusive. The acute renal dysfunction associated with sirolimus (such as indelayed graft function) may be due to suppression of compensatory renal cellproliferation and survival/repair processes. Although these adverse effects occur insome patients, their occurrence could be minimised by knowledge of the moleculareffects of sirolimus on the kidney, the use of sirolimus in appropriate patientpopulations, close monitoring of proteinuria and renal function, use ofangiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers ifproteinuria occurs and withdrawal if needed. Further long-term analysis of renalallograft studies using sirolimus as de novo immunosuppression along with clinicaland laboratory studies will refine these issues in the future.
17147461	CID	Sirolimus	renal dysfunction
17147461	CID	Sirolimus	proteinuria

17241784|t|Progressive myopathy with up-regulation of MHC-I associated with statin therapy.Statins can cause a necrotizing myopathy and hyperCKaemia which is reversible oncessation of the drug. What is less well known is a phenomenon whereby statins mayinduce a myopathy, which persists or may progress after stopping the drug. Weinvestigated the muscle pathology in 8 such cases. All had myofibre necrosis butonly 3 had an inflammatory infiltrate. In all cases there was diffuse or multifocalup-regulation of MHC-I expression even in non-necrotic fibres. Progressiveimprovement occurred in 7 cases after commencement of prednisolone and methotrexate,and in one case spontaneously. These observations suggest that statins may initiatean immune-mediated myopathy that persists after withdrawal of the drug and respondsto immunosuppressive therapy. The mechanism of this myopathy is uncertain but mayinvolve the induction by statins of an endoplasmic reticulum stress response withassociated up-regulation of MHC-I expression and antigen presentation by musclefibres.
17241784	CID	statin	necrosis
17241784	CID	statin	myopathy

17261653|t|Direct inhibition of cardiac hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gatedpacemaker channels by clonidine.BACKGROUND: Inhibition of cardiac sympathetic tone represents an importantstrategy for treatment of cardiovascular disease, including arrhythmia, coronaryheart disease, and chronic heart failure. Activation of presynapticalpha2-adrenoceptors is the most widely accepted mechanism of action of theantisympathetic drug clonidine; however, other target proteins have been postulatedto contribute to the in vivo actions of clonidine. METHODS AND RESULTS: To testwhether clonidine elicits pharmacological effects independent ofalpha2-adrenoceptors, we have generated mice with a targeted deletion of all 3alpha2-adrenoceptor subtypes (alpha2ABC-/-). Alpha2ABC-/- mice were completelyunresponsive to the analgesic and hypnotic effects of clonidine; however, clonidinesignificantly lowered heart rate in alpha2ABC-/- mice by up to 150 bpm.Clonidine-induced bradycardia in conscious alpha2ABC-/- mice was 32.3% (10microg/kg) and 26.6% (100 microg/kg) of the effect in wild-type mice. A similarbradycardic effect of clonidine was observed in isolated spontaneously beating rightatria from alpha2ABC-knockout and wild-type mice. Clonidine inhibited the nativepacemaker current (I(f)) in isolated sinoatrial node pacemaker cells and theI(f)-generating hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) 2 and HCN4channels in transfected HEK293 cells. As a consequence of blocking I(f), clonidinereduced the slope of the diastolic depolarization and the frequency of pacemakerpotentials in sinoatrial node cells from wild-type and alpha2ABC-knockout mice.CONCLUSIONS: Direct inhibition of cardiac HCN pacemaker channels contributes to thebradycardic effects of clonidine gene-targeted mice in vivo, and thus,clonidine-like drugs represent novel structures for future HCN channel inhibitors.
17261653	CID	clonidine	bradycardia

17343925|t|Influence of smoking on developing cochlea. Does smoking during pregnancy affectthe amplitudes of transient evoked otoacoustic emissions in newborns?OBJECTIVE: Maternal tobacco smoking has negative effects on fetal growth. Theinfluence of smoking during pregnancy on the developing cochlea has not beenestimated, although smoking has been positively associated with hearing loss inadults. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of maternal smokingon transient evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAEs) of healthy neonates. METHODS:This study was undertaken as part of neonatal screening for hearing impairment andinvolved both ears of 200 newborns. Newborns whose mothers reported smoking duringpregnancy (n=200 ears) were compared to a control group of newborns (n=200 ears),whose mothers were non-smokers. Exposure to tobacco was characterized as low (<5cigarettes per day, n=88 ears), moderate (5< or =cigarettes per day<10, n=76)or high (> or =10 cigarettes per day, n=36). RESULTS: In exposed neonates, TEOAEsmean response (across frequency) and mean amplitude at 4000Hz was significantlylower than in non-exposed neonates. Comparisons between exposed newborns'subgroups revealed no significant differences. However, by comparing each subgroupto control group, we found statistically significant decreases of TEOAEs amplitudesat 4000Hz for all three groups. Mean TEOAEs responses of highly exposed newbornswere also significantly lower in comparison to our control group. CONCLUSION: Inutero, exposure to tobacco smoking seems to have a small impact on outer hair cells.These effects seem to be equally true for all exposed newborns, regardless of thedegree of exposure. Further studies are needed in order to establish a potentialnegative effect of maternal smoking on the neonate's hearing acuity.
17343925	CID	smoking	hearing loss

17400887|t|Neuroinflammation and behavioral abnormalities after neonatal terbutalinetreatment in rats: implications for autism.Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder presenting before 3 years of age withdeficits in communication and social skills and repetitive behaviors. In addition togenetic influences, recent studies suggest that prenatal drug or chemical exposuresare risk factors for autism. Terbutaline, a beta2-adrenoceptor agonist used toarrest preterm labor, has been associated with increased concordance for autism indizygotic twins. We studied the effects of terbutaline on microglial activation indifferent brain regions and behavioral outcomes in developing rats. Newborn ratswere given terbutaline (10 mg/kg) daily on postnatal days (PN) 2 to 5 or PN 11 to 14and examined 24 h after the last dose and at PN 30. Immunohistochemical studiesshowed that administration of terbutaline on PN 2 to 5 produced a robust increase inmicroglial activation on PN 30 in the cerebral cortex, as well as in cerebellar andcerebrocortical white matter. None of these effects occurred in animals giventerbutaline on PN 11 to 14. In behavioral tests, animals treated with terbutaline onPN 2 to 5 showed consistent patterns of hyper-reactivity to novelty and aversivestimuli when assessed in a novel open field, as well as in the acoustic startleresponse test. Our findings indicate that beta2-adrenoceptor overstimulation duringan early critical period results in microglial activation associated with innateneuroinflammatory pathways and behavioral abnormalities, similar to those describedin autism. This study provides a useful animal model for understanding theneuropathological processes underlying autism spectrum disorders.
17400887	CID	terbutaline	autism

17612891|t|Acute myocarditis associated with clozapine.OBJECTIVE: A case of acute myocarditis associated with the commencement ofclozapine is described, highlighting the onset, course and possible contributingfactors. There is an urgent need to raise awareness about this potentially fatalcomplication of clozapine use. RESULTS: A 20-year-old male with schizophreniadeveloped a sudden onset of myocarditis after commencement of clozapine. The patientrecovered with intensive medical support. The symptoms occurred around 2 weeks afterstarting clozapine in an inpatient setting. Possible contributing factors may havebeen concomitant antidepressant use and unaccustomed physical activity. CONCLUSIONS:Myocarditis is an increasingly recognized complication associated with the use ofclozapine. It can be fatal if not recognized and treated early. Considering thatclozapine remains the gold standard in treatment of resistant psychosis, there is anurgent need to raise awareness among medical and paramedical staff involved in thecare of these patients. There are also implications for recommendations andregulations regarding the use of clozapine.
17612891	CID	clozapine	myocarditis
17612891	CID	antidepressant	myocarditis

18081909|t|Encephalopathy induced by levetiracetam added to valproate.BACKGROUND: We report on the manifestation of a levetiracetam (LEV)-inducedencephalopathy. FINDINGS: A 28-year-old man suffering from idiopathic epilepsy withgeneralized seizures was treated with LEV (3000 mg) added to valproate (VPA) (2000mg). Frequency of generalized tonic-clonic seizures increased from one per 6 monthsto two per month. Neuropsychological testing showed impaired word fluency,psychomotor speed and working memory. The interictal electroencephalogram (EEG)showed a generalized slowing to 5 per second theta rhythms with bilateralgeneralized high-amplitude discharges. OUTCOME: Following discontinuation of LEV,EEG and neuropsychological findings improved and seizure frequency decreased.
18081909	CID	levetiracetam	impaired word fluency, psychomotor speed and working memory
18081909	CID	valproate	impaired word fluency, psychomotor speed and working memory
18081909	CID	valproate	Encephalopathy
18081909	CID	levetiracetam	Encephalopathy
18081909	CID	levetiracetam	tonic-clonic seizures
18081909	CID	valproate	tonic-clonic seizures

18083142|t|Norepinephrine signaling through beta-adrenergic receptors is critical forexpression of cocaine-induced anxiety.BACKGROUND: Cocaine is a widely abused psychostimulant that has both rewarding andaversive properties. While the mechanisms underlying cocaine's rewardingeffects have been studied extensively, less attention has been paid to theunpleasant behavioral states induced by cocaine, such as anxiety. METHODS: In thisstudy, we evaluated the performance of dopamine beta-hydroxylase knockout (Dbh -/-)mice, which lack norepinephrine (NE), in the elevated plus maze (EPM) to examine thecontribution of noradrenergic signaling to cocaine-induced anxiety. RESULTS: Wefound that cocaine dose-dependently increased anxiety-like behavior in control (Dbh+/-) mice, as measured by a decrease in open arm exploration. The Dbh -/- mice hadnormal baseline performance in the EPM but were completely resistant to theanxiogenic effects of cocaine. Cocaine-induced anxiety was also attenuated in Dbh+/- mice following administration of disulfiram, a dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH)inhibitor. In experiments using specific adrenergic antagonists, we found thatpretreatment with the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol blockedcocaine-induced anxiety-like behavior in Dbh +/- and wild-type C57BL6/J mice, whilethe alpha(1) antagonist prazosin and the alpha(2) antagonist yohimbine had noeffect. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that noradrenergic signaling viabeta-adrenergic receptors is required for cocaine-induced anxiety in mice.
18083142	CID	cocaine	anxiety

18182964|t|Clonidine for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: II. ECG changes andadverse events analysis.OBJECTIVE: To examine the safety and tolerability of clonidine used alone or withmethylphenidate in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).METHOD: In a 16-week multicenter, double-blind trial, 122 children with ADHD wererandomly assigned to clonidine (n = 31), methylphenidate (n = 29), clonidine andmethylphenidate (n = 32), or placebo (n = 30). Doses were flexibly titrated up to0.6 mg/day for clonidine and 60 mg/day for methylphenidate (both with divideddosing). Groups were compared regarding adverse events and changes from baseline toweek 16 in electrocardiograms and vital signs. RESULTS: There were more incidents ofbradycardia in subjects treated with clonidine compared with those not treated withclonidine (17.5% versus 3.4%; p =.02), but no other significant group differencesregarding electrocardiogram and other cardiovascular outcomes. There were nosuggestions of interactions between clonidine and methylphenidate regardingcardiovascular outcomes. Moderate or severe adverse events were more common insubjects on clonidine (79.4% versus 49.2%; p =.0006) but not associated with higherrates of early study withdrawal. Drowsiness was common on clonidine, but generallyresolved by 6 to 8 weeks. CONCLUSIONS: Clonidine, used alone or withmethylphenidate, appears safe and well tolerated in childhood ADHD. Physiciansprescribing clonidine should monitor for bradycardia and advise patients about thehigh likelihood of initial drowsiness.
18182964	CID	Clonidine	bradycardia

18217897|t|Thalidomide has limited single-agent activity in relapsed or refractory indolentnon-Hodgkin lymphomas: a phase II trial of the Cancer and Leukemia Group B.Thalidomide is an immunomodulatory agent with demonstrated activity in multiplemyeloma, mantle cell lymphoma and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. Its activity isbelieved to be due modulation of the tumour milieu, including downregulation ofangiogenesis and inflammatory cytokines. Between July 2001 and April 2004, 24patients with relapsed/refractory indolent lymphomas received thalidomide 200 mgdaily with escalation by 100 mg daily every 1-2 weeks as tolerated, up to a maximumof 800 mg daily. Patients had received a median of 2 (range, 1-4) prior regimens. Of24 evaluable patients, two achieved a complete remission and one achieved a partialremission for an overall response rate of 12.5% (95% confidence interval:2.6-32.4%). Eleven patients progressed during therapy. Grade 3-4 adverse effectsincluded myelosuppression, fatigue, somnolence/depressed mood, neuropathy anddyspnea. Of concern was the occurrence of four thromboembolic events. Our resultsfailed to demonstrate an important response rate to single agent thalidomide inindolent lymphomas and contrast with the higher activity level reported with thesecond generation immunomodulatory agent, lenalidomide.
18217897	CID	Thalidomide	thromboembolic

18996674|t|Intracavernous epinephrine: a minimally invasive treatment for priapism in theemergency department.Priapism is the prolonged erection of the penis in the absence of sexual arousal.A 45-year-old man, an admitted frequent cocaine user, presented to the EmergencyDepartment (ED) on two separate occasions with a history of priapism after cocaineuse. The management options in the ED, as exemplified by four individual casereports, in particular the use of a minimally invasive method of intracorporalepinephrine instillation, are discussed.
18996674	CID	cocaine	priapism

19058010|t|Effect of green tea and vitamin E combination in isoproterenol induced myocardialinfarction in rats.The present study was aimed to investigate the combined effects of green tea andvitamin E on heart weight, body weight, serum marker enzymes, lipid peroxidation,endogenous antioxidants and membrane bound ATPases in isoproterenol (ISO)-inducedmyocardial infarction in rats. Adult male albino rats, treated with ISO (200 mg/kg,s.c.) for 2 days at an interval of 24 h caused a significant (P<0.05) elevationof heart weight, serum marker enzymes, lipid peroxidation and Ca+2 ATPase levelwhereas there was a significant (P<0.05) decrease in body weight, endogenousantioxidants, Na+/ K+ ATPase and Mg+2 ATPase levels. Administration of green tea(100 mg/kg/day, p.o.) and vitamin E (100 mg/kg/day, p.o.) together for 30consecutive days and challenged with ISO on the day 29th and 30th, showed asignificant (P<0.05) decrease in heart weight, serum marker enzymes, lipidperoxidation, Ca+2 ATPase and a significant increase in the body weight, endogenousantioxidants, Na+/K+ ATPase and Mg+2 ATPase when compared with ISO treated group andgreen tea or vitamin E alone treated groups. These findings indicate the synergisticprotective effect of green tea and vitamin E during ISO induced myocardialinfarction in rats.
19058010	CID	isoproterenol	myocardial infarction

19581773|t|Development of ocular myasthenia during pegylated interferon and ribavirintreatment for chronic hepatitis C.A 63-year-old male experienced sudden diplopia after 9 weeks of administration ofpegylated interferon (IFN) alpha-2b and ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C (CHC).Ophthalmologic examinations showed ptosis on the right upper lid and restrictedright eye movement without any other neurological signs. A brain imaging study andrepetitive nerve stimulation test indicated no abnormality. The acetylcholinereceptor antibody titer and response to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors werenegative, and the results of thyroid function tests were normal. The patient'sophthalmological symptoms improved rapidly 3 weeks after discontinuation ofpegylated IFN alpha-2b and ribavirin. The ocular myasthenia associated withcombination therapy of pegylated IFN alpha-2b and ribavirin for CHC is very rarelyreported; therefore, we present this case with a review of the various eyecomplications of IFN therapy.
19581773	CID	ribavirin	ocular myasthenia
19581773	CID	pegylated interferon	ptosis on the right upper lid
19581773	CID	ribavirin	ptosis on the right upper lid
19581773	CID	pegylated interferon	restricted right eye movement
19581773	CID	pegylated interferon	ocular myasthenia
19581773	CID	ribavirin	restricted right eye movement

19759529|t|The glycine transporter-1 inhibitor SSR103800 displays a selective and specificantipsychotic-like profile in normal and transgenic mice.Schizophrenia has been initially associated with dysfunction in dopamineneurotransmission. However, the observation that antagonists of the glutamateN-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor produce schizophrenic-like symptoms in humanshas led to the idea of a dysfunctioning of the glutamatergic system via its NMDAreceptor. As a result, there is a growing interest in the development ofpharmacological agents with potential antipsychotic properties that enhance theactivity of the glutamatergic system via a modulation of the NMDA receptor. Amongthem are glycine transporter-1 (GlyT1) inhibitors such as SSR103800, whichindirectly enhance NMDA receptor function by increasing the glycine (a co-agonistfor the NMDA receptor) levels in the synapse. This study aimed at investigating thepotential antipsychotic-like properties of SSR103800, with a particular focus onmodels of hyperactivity, involving either drug challenge (ie, amphetamine andMK-801) or transgenic mice (ie, NMDA Nr1(neo-/-) and DAT(-/-)). Results showed thatSSR103800 (10-30 mg/kg p.o.) blocked hyperactivity induced by the non-competitiveNMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 and partially reversed spontaneous hyperactivity ofNMDA Nr1(neo-/-) mice. In contrast, SSR103800 failed to affect hyperactivity inducedby amphetamine or naturally observed in dopamine transporter (DAT(-/-)) knockoutmice (10-30 mg/kg p.o.). Importantly, both classical (haloperidol) and atypical(olanzapine, clozapine and aripiprazole) antipsychotics were effective in all thesemodels of hyperactivity. However, unlike these latter, SSR103800 did not producecatalepsy (retention on the bar test) up to 30 mg/kg p.o. Together these findingsshow that the GlyT1 inhibitor, SSR103800, produces antipsychotic-like effects, whichdiffer from those observed with compounds primarily targeting the dopaminergicsystem, and has a reduced side-effect potential as compared with these latter drugs.
19759529	CID	aripiprazole	catalepsy
19759529	CID	haloperidol	catalepsy
19759529	CID	olanzapine	catalepsy
19759529	CID	MK-801	hyperactivity
19759529	CID	amphetamine	hyperactivity
19759529	CID	clozapine	catalepsy

19957053|t|Phenylephrine but not ephedrine reduces frontal lobe oxygenation followinganesthesia-induced hypotension.BACKGROUND: Vasopressor agents are used to correct anesthesia-induced hypotension.We describe the effect of phenylephrine and ephedrine on frontal lobe oxygenation(S(c)O(2)) following anesthesia-induced hypotension. METHODS: Following induction ofanesthesia by fentanyl (0.15 mg kg(-1)) and propofol (2.0 mg kg(-1)), 13 patientsreceived phenylephrine (0.1 mg iv) and 12 patients received ephedrine (10 mg iv) torestore mean arterial pressure (MAP). Heart rate (HR), MAP, stroke volume (SV),cardiac output (CO), and frontal lobe oxygenation (S(c)O(2)) were registered.RESULTS: Induction of anesthesia was followed by a decrease in MAP, HR, SV, and COconcomitant with an elevation in S(c)O(2). After administration of phenylephrine,MAP increased (51 +/- 12 to 81 +/- 13 mmHg; P < 0.001; mean +/- SD). However, a14% (from 70 +/- 8% to 60 +/- 7%) reduction in S(c)O(2) (P < 0.05) followed withno change in CO (3.7 +/- 1.1 to 3.4 +/- 0.9 l min(-1)). The administration ofephedrine led to a similar increase in MAP (53 +/- 9 to 79 +/- 8 mmHg; P <0.001), restored CO (3.2 +/- 1.2 to 5.0 +/- 1.3 l min(-1)), and preserved S(c)O(2).CONCLUSIONS: The utilization of phenylephrine to correct hypotension induced byanesthesia has a negative impact on S(c)O(2) while ephedrine maintains frontal lobeoxygenation potentially related to an increase in CO.
19957053	CID	fentanyl	hypotension
19957053	CID	fentanyl	a decrease in CO
19957053	CID	propofol	hypotension
19957053	CID	propofol	a decrease in CO
19957053	CID	Phenylephrine	reduces frontal lobe oxygenation

20619828|t|A novel, multiple symptom model of obsessive-compulsive-like behaviors in animals.BACKGROUND: Current animal models of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) typicallyinvolve acute, drug-induced symptom provocation or a genetic association withstereotypies or anxiety. None of these current models demonstrate multiple OCD-likebehaviors. METHODS: Neonatal rats were treated with the tricyclic antidepressantclomipramine or vehicle between days 9 and 16 twice daily and behaviorally tested inadulthood. RESULTS: Clomipramine exposure in immature rats produced significantbehavioral and biochemical changes that include enhanced anxiety (elevated plus mazeand marble burying), behavioral inflexibility (perseveration in the spontaneousalternation task and impaired reversal learning), working memory impairment (e.g.,win-shift paradigm), hoarding, and corticostriatal dysfunction. Dopamine D2receptors were elevated in the striatum, whereas serotonin 2C, but not serotonin 1A,receptors were elevated in the orbital frontal cortex. CONCLUSIONS: This is thefirst demonstration of multiple symptoms consistent with an OCD-like profile inanimals. Moreover, these behaviors are accompanied by biochemical changes in brainregions previously identified as relevant to OCD. This novel model of OCDdemonstrates that drug exposure during a sensitive period can program disease-likesystems permanently, which could have implications for current and futuretherapeutic strategies for this and other psychiatric disorders.
20619828	CID	clomipramine	memory impairment
20619828	CID	clomipramine	anxiety
20619828	CID	clomipramine	hoarding

891050|t|Late recovery of renal function in a woman with the hemolytic uremic syndrome.A case is reported of the hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) in a woman taking oralcontraceptives. She was treated with heparin, dipyridamole and hemodialysis; andafter more than three months, her urinary output rose above 500 ml; and six monthsafter the onset of anuria, dialysis treatment was stopped. This case emphasizes thepossibility that HUS in adults is not invariably irreversible and that, despiteprolonged oliguria, recovery of renal function can be obtained. Therefore, in adultpatients affected by HUS, dialysis should not be discontinued prematurely; moreover,bilateral nephrectomy, for treatment of severe hypertension and microangiopathichemolytic anemia, should be performed with caution.
891050	CID	oral contraceptives	hemolytic uremic syndrome

983936|t|Effects of acetylsalicylic acid, dipyridamole, and hydrocortisone onepinephrine-induced myocardial injury in dogs.A reproducible model for producing diffuse myocardial injury (epinephrineinfusion) has been developed to study the cardioprotective effects of agents ormaneuvers which might alter the evolution of acute myocardial infarction. Infusionsof epinephrine (4 mug per kilogram per minute for 6 hours) increased radiocalciumuptakes into intact myocardium and each of its subcellular components with themitochondrial fraction showing the most consistent changes when compared tosaline-infused control animals (4,957 vs. 827 counts per minute per gram of driedtissue or fraction). Myocardial concentrations of calcium also increasedsignificantly (12.0 vs. 5.0 mg.per 100 Gm. of fat-free dry weight). Infusions ofcalcium chloride sufficient to raise serum calcium concentrations 2 mEq. per literfailed to increase calcium influx into the myocardial cell. Mitochondrialradiocalcium uptakes were significantly decreased in animals pretreated withacetylsalicylic acid or dipyridamole or when hydrocortisone was added to theepinephrine infusion (2,682,2,803, and 3,424 counts per minute per gram of driedfraction, respectively). Myocardial calcium concentrations also were decreased(11.2, 8.3, and 8.9 mg. per 100 Gm. of fat-free dry weight, respectively) in thethree treatment groups, being significantly decreased only in the last two. Evidenceof microscopic damage was graded as less severe in the three treatment groups.Acetylsalicylic acid, dipyridamole, and hydrocortisone all appear to havecardioprotective effects when tested in this model.
983936	CID	epinephrine	myocardial injury

1428568|t|Changes in depressive status associated with topical beta-blockers.Depression and sexual dysfunction have been related to side effects of topicalbeta-blockers. We performed a preliminary study in order to determine any differencebetween a non selective beta-blocker (timolol) and a selective beta-blocker(betaxolol) regarding CNS side effects. Eight glaucomatous patients chronicallytreated with timolol 0.5%/12h, suffering from depression diagnosed through DMS-III-Rcriteria, were included in the study. During the six-month follow up, depression wasquantified through the Beck and Zung-Conde scales every two months. In a doubleblind cross-over study with control group, the patients under timolol treatmentpresented higher depression values measured through the Beck and the Zung-Condescales (p < 0.001 vs control). These results suggest that betaxolol could be lessof a depression-inducer than timolol in predisposed patients.
1428568	CID	timolol	depressive

1720453|t|Long-term follow-up of ifosfamide renal toxicity in children treated for malignantmesenchymal tumors: an International Society of Pediatric Oncology report.The renal function of 74 children with malignant mesenchymal tumors in completeremission and who have received the same ifosfamide chemotherapy protocol(International Society of Pediatric Oncology Malignant Mesenchymal Tumor Study 84[SIOP MMT 84]) were studied 1 year after the completion of treatment. Totalcumulative doses were 36 or 60 g/m2 of ifosfamide (six or 10 cycles of ifosfamide,vincristine, and dactinomycin [IVA]). None of them had received cisplatinchemotherapy. Ages ranged from 4 months to 17 years; 58 patients were males and 42females. The most common primary tumor site was the head and neck. Renal functionwas investigated by measuring plasma and urinary electrolytes, glucosuria,proteinuria, aminoaciduria, urinary pH, osmolarity, creatinine clearance, phosphatetubular reabsorption, beta 2 microglobulinuria, and lysozymuria. Fifty-eightpatients (78%) had normal renal tests, whereas 16 patients (22%) had renalabnormalities. Two subsets of patients were identified from this latter group: thefirst included four patients (5% of the total population) who developed majortoxicity resulting in Fanconi's syndrome (TDFS); and the second group includedfive patients with elevated beta 2 microglobulinuria and low phosphate reabsorption.The remaining seven patients had isolated beta 2 microglobulinuria. Severe toxicitywas correlated with the higher cumulative dose of 60 g/m2 of ifosfamide, a youngerage (less than 2 1/2 years old), and a predominance of vesicoprostatic tumorinvolvement. This low percentage (5%) of TDFS must be evaluated with respect to theefficacy of ifosfamide in the treatment of mesenchymal tumors in children.
1720453	CID	ifosfamide	Fanconi's syndrome
1720453	CID	ifosfamide	renal toxicity

1833784|t|Evidence for an involvement of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in mediatingnicotine-induced hyperactivity in rats.Previous studies have suggested that repeated exposure of rats to the drug or tothe experimental environment is necessary to observe nicotine-induced locomotorstimulation. In the present study the role of habituation to the experimentalenvironment on the stimulant effect of nicotine in rats was examined. In addition,the role of dopamine receptors in mediating nicotine-induced locomotor stimulationwas investigated by examining the effects of selective D1 and D2 dopamine receptorantagonists on activity induced by nicotine. Locomotor activity was assessed in maleSprague-Dawley rats tested in photocell cages. Nicotine (1.0 mg/kg) caused asignificant increase in locomotor activity in rats that were habituated to the testenvironment, but had only a weak and delayed stimulant action in rats that wereunfamiliar with the test environment. The stimulant action of nicotine was blockedby the central nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine but not by the peripheral nicotinicblocker hexamethonium, indicating that the response is probably mediated by centralnicotinic receptors. Nicotine-induced hyperactivity was blocked by the selective D1antagonist SCH 23390, the selective D2 antagonist raclopride and the D1/D2antagonist fluphenazine. Pretreatment with the D2 agonist PHNO enhancednicotine-induced hyperactivity, whereas the D1 agonist SKF 38393 had no effect. Theresults indicate that acute nicotine injection induces a pronounced hyperactivity inrats habituated to the test environment. The effect appears to be mediated bycentral nicotine receptors, possibly located on dopaminergic neurons, and alsorequires the activation of both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors.
1833784	CID	nicotine	hyperactivity

1867351|t|Neuropsychiatric side effects after the use of mefloquine.This study describes neuropsychiatric side effects in patients after treatmentwith mefloquine. Reactions consisted mainly of seizures, acute psychoses, anxietyneurosis, and major disturbances of sleep-wake rhythm. Side effects occurred afterboth therapeutic and prophylactic intake and were graded from moderate to severe. Ina risk analysis of neuropsychiatric side effects in Germany, it is estimated thatone of 8,000 mefloquine users suffers from such reactions. The incidence calculationrevealed that one of 215 therapeutic users had reactions, compared with one of13,000 in the prophylaxis group, making the risk of neuropsychiatric reactions aftermefloquine treatment 60 times higher than after prophylaxis. Therefore, certainlimitations for malaria prophylaxis and treatment with mefloquine are recommended.
1867351	CID	mefloquine	disturbances of sleep-wake rhythm
1867351	CID	mefloquine	psychoses
1867351	CID	mefloquine	anxiety neurosis
1867351	CID	mefloquine	seizures

2070391|t|Reduction in injection pain using buffered lidocaine as a local anesthetic beforecardiac catheterization.Previous reports have suggested that pain associated with the injection oflidocaine is related to the acidic pH of the solution. To determine if the additionof a buffering solution to adjust the pH of lidocaine into the physiologic rangewould reduce pain during injection, we performed a blinded randomized study inpatients undergoing cardiac catheterization. Twenty patients were asked to quantifythe severity of pain after receiving standard lidocaine in one femoral area andbuffered lidocaine in the opposite femoral area. The mean pain score for bufferedlidocaine was significantly lower than the mean score for standard lidocaine (2.7+/- 1.9 vs. 3.8 +/- 2.2, P = 0.03). The pH adjustment of standard lidocaine can beaccomplished easily in the catheterization laboratory before injection and resultsin a reduction of the pain occurring during the infiltration of tissues.
2070391	CID	lidocaine	pain

2266990|t|Randomized, double-blind trial of mazindol in Duchenne dystrophy.There is evidence that growth hormone may be related to the progression ofweakness in Duchenne dystrophy. We conducted a 12-month controlled trial ofmazindol, a putative growth hormone secretion inhibitor, in 83 boys with Duchennedystrophy. Muscle strength, contractures, functional ability and pulmonary functionwere tested at baseline, and 6 and 12 months after treatment with mazindol (3 mg/d)or placebo. The study was designed to have a power of greater than 0.90 to detect aslowing to 25% of the expected rate of progression of weakness at P less than 0.05.Mazindol did not benefit strength at any point in the study. Side effectsattributable to mazindol included decreased appetite (36%), dry mouth (10%),behavioral change (22%), and gastrointestinal symptoms (18%); mazindol dosage wasreduced in 43% of patients. The effect of mazindol on GH secretion was estimatedindirectly by comparing the postabsorptive IGF-I levels obtained following 3, 6, 9,and 12 months in the mazindol treated to those in the placebo groups. Althoughmazindol-treated patients gained less weight and height than placebo-treatedpatients, no significant effect on IGF-I levels was observed. Mazindol doses notslow the progression of weakness in Duchenne dystrophy.
2266990	CID	mazindol	gastrointestinal symptoms
2266990	CID	mazindol	dry mouth
2266990	CID	mazindol	decreased appetite

2348231|t|Pentoxifylline (Trental) does not inhibit dipyridamole-induced coronary hyperemia:implications for dipyridamole-thallium-201 myocardial imaging.Dipyridamole-thallium-201 imaging is often performed in patients unable toexercise because of peripheral vascular disease. Many of these patients are takingpentoxifylline (Trental), a methylxanthine derivative which may improve intermittentclaudication. Whether pentoxifylline inhibits dipyridamole-induced coronaryhyperemia like other methylxanthines such as theophylline and should be stoppedprior to dipyridamole-thallium-201 imaging is unknown. Therefore, we studied thehyperemic response to dipyridamole in seven open-chest anesthetized dogs afterpretreatment with either pentoxifylline (0, 7.5, or 15 mg/kg i.v.) or theophylline(3 mg/kg i.v.). Baseline circumflex coronary blood flows did not differsignificantly among treatment groups. Dipyridamole significantly increased coronaryblood flow before and after 7.5 or 15 mm/kg i.v. pentoxifylline (p less than 0.002).Neither dose of pentoxifylline significantly decreased the dipyridamole-inducedhyperemia, while peak coronary blood flow was significantly lower after theophylline(p less than 0.01). We conclude that pentoxyifylline does not inhibitdipyridamole-induced coronary hyperemia even at high doses.
2348231	CID	dipyridamole	hyperemia
2348231	CID	Pentoxifylline	intermittent claudication

2355241|t|Cause of death among patients with Parkinson's disease: a rare mortality dueto cerebral haemorrhage.Causes of death, with special reference to cerebral haemorrhage, among 240patients with pathologically verified Parkinson's disease were investigatedusing the Annuals of the Pathological Autopsy Cases in Japan from 1981 to 1985. Theleading causes of death were pneumonia and bronchitis (44.1%), malignant neoplasms(11.6%), heart diseases (4.1%), cerebral infarction (3.7%) and septicaemia (3.3%).Cerebral haemorrhage was the 11th most frequent cause of death, accounting for only0.8% of deaths among the patients, whereas it was the 5th most common cause of deathamong the Japanese general population in 1985. The low incidence of cerebralhaemorrhage as a cause of death in patients with Parkinson's disease mayreflect the hypotensive effect of levodopa and a hypotensive mechanism due toreduced noradrenaline levels in the parkinsonian brain.
2355241	CID	levodopa	hypotensive

2445283|t|Tolerance and antiviral effect of ribavirin in patients with Argentine hemorrhagicfever.Tolerance and antiviral effect of ribavirin was studied in 6 patients withArgentine hemorrhagic fever (AHF) of more than 8 days of evolution. Administrationof ribavirin resulted in a neutralization of viremia and a drop of endogenousinterferon titers. The average time of death was delayed. A reversible anemia wasthe only adverse effect observed. From these results, we conclude that ribavirin hasan antiviral effect in advanced cases of AHF, and that anemia, the only secondaryreaction observed, can be easily managed. The possible beneficial effect ofribavirin during the initial days of AHF is discussed.
2445283	CID	ribavirin	anemia

2950248|t|Dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischemia.Angina and ischemic electrocardiographic changes occurred after administration oforal dipyridamole in four patients awaiting urgent myocardial revascularizationprocedures. To our knowledge, this has not previously been reported as a side effectof preoperative dipyridamole therapy, although dipyridamole-induced myocardialischemia has been demonstrated to occur in animals and humans with coronary arterydisease. Epicardial coronary collateral vessels were demonstrated in all fourpatients; a coronary "steal" phenomenon may be the mechanism of thedipyridamole-induced ischemia observed.
2950248	CID	Dipyridamole	Angina

3015567|t|Inhibition of immunoreactive corticotropin-releasing factor secretion into thehypophysial-portal circulation by delayed glucocorticoid feedback.Nitroprusside-induced hypotension evokes ACTH secretion which is primarilymediated by enhanced secretion of immunoreactive corticotropin-releasing factor(irCRF) into the hypophysial-portal circulation. Portal plasma concentrations ofneither arginine vasopressin nor oxytocin are significantly altered in thisparadigm. Application of a delayed feedback signal, in the form of a 2-h systemiccorticosterone infusion in urethane-anesthetized rats with pharmacological blockadeof glucocorticoid synthesis, is without effect on the resting secretion of argininevasopressin and oxytocin at any corticosterone feedback dose tested. Resting irCRFlevels are suppressed only at the highest corticosterone infusion rate, whichresulted in systemic corticosterone levels of 40 micrograms/dl. Suppression of irCRFsecretion in response to nitroprusside-induced hypotension is observed and occurs ata plasma corticosterone level between 8-12 micrograms/dl. These studies providefurther evidence for a strong central component of the delayed feedback processwhich is mediated by modulation of irCRF release.
3015567	CID	Nitroprusside	hypotension

3031535|t|Noradrenergic involvement in catalepsy induced by delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol.In order to elucidate the role of the catecholaminergic system in thecataleptogenic effect of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the effect ofpretreatment with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or with desipramine and 6-OHDA andlesions of the locus coeruleus were investigated in rats. The cataleptogenic effectof THC was significantly reduced in rats treated with 6-OHDA and in rats withlesions of the locus coeruleus but not in rats treated with desipramine and 6-OHDA,as compared with control rats. On the contrary, the cataleptogenic effect ofhaloperidol was significantly reduced in rats treated with desipramine and 6-OHDAbut not in rats treated with 6-OHDA or in rats with lesions of the locus coeruleus.These results indicate that noradrenergic neurons have an important role in themanifestation of catalepsy induced by THC, whereas dopaminergic neurons areimportant in catalepsy induced by haloperidol.
3031535	CID	haloperidol	catalepsy
3031535	CID	delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol	catalepsy

3125768|t|Intracranial pressure increases during alfentanil-induced rigidity.Intracranial pressure (ICP) was measured during alfentanil-induced rigidity inrats. Ten rats had arterial, central venous (CVP), and subdural cannulae insertedunder halothane anesthesia. The animals were mechanically ventilated to achievenormocarbia (PCO2 = 42 +/- 1 mmHg, mean +/- SE). Following instrumentation,halothane was discontinued and alfentanil (125 mu/kg) administered iv duringemergence from halothane anesthesia. In the five rats that developed somaticrigidity, ICP and CVP increased significantly above baseline (delta ICP 7.5 +/- 1.0mmHg, delta CVP 5.9 +/- 1.3 mmHg). These variables returned to baseline whenrigidity was abolished with metocurine. In five rats that did not become rigid, ICPand CVP did not change following alfentanil. These observations suggest thatrigidity should be prevented when alfentanil, and, presumably, other opiates, areused in the anesthetic management of patients with ICP problems.
3125768	CID	alfentanil	rigidity

3187073|t|Adverse cardiac effects during induction chemotherapy treatment with cis-platinand 5-fluorouracil.Survival for patients with advanced head and neck carcinoma and esophagealcarcinoma is poor with radiotherapy and/or surgery. Obviously, there is a need foreffective chemotherapy. In the present study, cis-platin (80-120 mg/m2BSA) and 5-FU(1000 mg/m2BSA daily as a continuous infusion during 5 days) were given to 76patients before radiotherapy and surgery. The aim of the study was to clarify theincidence and severity of adverse cardiac effects to this treatment. Beforetreatment all patients had a cardiac evaluation and during treatment serial ECGrecordings were performed. In the pre-treatment evaluation, signs of cardiovasculardisease were found in 33 patients (43%). During treatment, adverse cardiac effectswere observed in 14 patients (18%). The mean age of these patients was the same asfor the entire group, 64 years. The incidence of cardiotoxicity was not higher inpatients with signs of cardiovascular disease than in those without in thepre-treatment evaluation. The most common signs of cardiotoxicity were chest pain,ST-T wave changes and atrial fibrillation. This was followed by ventricularfibrillation in one patient and sudden death in another. It is concluded thatpatients on 5-FU treatment should be under close supervision and that the treatmentshould be discontinued if chest pain or tachyarrhythmia is observed.
3187073	CID	cis-platin	cardiovascular disease
3187073	CID	5-fluorouracil	ventricular fibrillation
3187073	CID	5-fluorouracil	chest pain
3187073	CID	5-fluorouracil	atrial fibrillation
3187073	CID	cis-platin	atrial fibrillation
3187073	CID	5-fluorouracil	cardiovascular disease
3187073	CID	cis-platin	ventricular fibrillation
3187073	CID	cis-platin	chest pain

3371379|t|Verapamil-induced carbamazepine neurotoxicity. A report of two cases.Two patients with signs of carbamazepine neurotoxicity after combined treatmentwith verapamil showed complete recovery after discontinuation of the calcium entryblocker. Use of verapamil in combination with carbamazepine should either be avoidedor prescribed only with appropriate adjustment of the carbamazepine dose (usuallyreduction of the carbamazepine dose by one half).
3371379	CID	Verapamil	neurotoxicity
3371379	CID	carbamazepine	neurotoxicity

3503576|t|Serial studies of auditory neurotoxicity in patients receiving deferoxaminetherapy.Visual and auditory neurotoxicity was previously documented in 42 of 89 patientswith transfusion-dependent anemia who were receiving iron chelation therapy withdaily subcutaneous deferoxamine. Twenty-two patients in the affected group hadabnormal audiograms with deficits mostly in the high frequency range of 4,000 to8,000 Hz and in the hearing threshold levels of 30 to 100 decibels. Whendeferoxamine therapy was discontinued and serial studies were performed, audiogramsin seven cases reverted to normal or near normal within two to three weeks, and nineof 13 patients with symptoms became asymptomatic. Audiograms from 15 patientsremained abnormal and four patients required hearing aids because of permanentdisability. Since 18 of the 22 patients were initially receiving deferoxamine dosesin excess of the commonly recommended 50 mg/kg per dose, therapy was restarted withlower doses, usually 50 mg/kg per dose or less depending on the degree of auditoryabnormality, and with the exception of two cases no further toxicity wasdemonstrated. Auditory deterioration and improvement, demonstrated serially inindividual patients receiving and not receiving deferoxamine, respectively, providedconvincing evidence for a cause-and-effect relation between deferoxamineadministration and ototoxicity. Based on these data, a plan of management wasdeveloped that allows effective yet safe administration of deferoxamine. A dose of50 mg/kg is recommended in those without audiogram abnormalities. With mildtoxicity, a reduction to 30 or 40 mg/kg per dose should result in a reversal of theabnormal results to normal within four weeks. Moderate abnormalities require areduction of deferoxamine to 25 mg/kg per dose with careful monitoring. In thosewith symptoms of hearing loss, the drug should be stopped for four weeks, and whenthe audiogram is stable or improved, therapy should be restarted at 10 to 25 mg/kgper dose. Serial audiograms should be performed every six months in those withoutproblems and more frequently in young patients with normal serum ferritin values andin those with auditory dysfunction.
3503576	CID	deferoxamine	abnormal audiograms with deficits mostly in the high frequency range of 4,000
                    to 8,000 Hz
3503576	CID	deferoxamine	Visual neurotoxicity

3560095|t|Flurbiprofen in the treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.Thirty-four patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, who were treated withflurbiprofen at a maximum dose of 4 mg/kg/day, had statistically significantdecreases from baseline in 6 arthritis indices after 12 weeks of treatment.Improvements were seen in the number of tender joints, the severity of swelling andtenderness, the time of walk 50 feet, the duration of morning stiffness and thecircumference of the left knee. The most frequently observed side effect was fecaloccult blood (25% of patients); however, there was no other evidence ofgastrointestinal (GI) bleeding in these patients. One patient was prematurelydiscontinued from the study for severe headache and abdominal pain. Most sideeffects were mild and related to the GI tract.
3560095	CID	Flurbiprofen	headache
3560095	CID	Flurbiprofen	gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding
3560095	CID	Flurbiprofen	abdominal pain

3714122|t|The correlation between neurotoxic esterase inhibition and mipafox-inducedneuropathic damage in rats.The correlation between neuropathic damage and inhibition of neurotoxic esteraseor neuropathy target enzyme (NTE) was examined in rats acutely exposed to Mipafox(N, N'-diisopropylphosphorodiamidofluoridate), a neurotoxic organophosphate.Brain and spinal cord NTE activities were measured in Long-Evans male rats 1 hrpost-exposure to various dosages of Mipafox (ip, 1-15 mg/kg). These data werecorrelated with histologically scored cervical cord damage in a separate group ofsimilarly dosed rats sampled 14-21 days post-exposure. Those dosages (greater thanor equal to 10 mg/kg) that inhibited mean NTE activity in the spinal cord greaterthan or equal to 73% and brain greater than or equal to 67% of control valuesproduced severe (greater than or equal to 3) cervical cord pathology in 85% of therats. In contrast, dosages of Mipafox (less than or equal to 5 mg/kg) whichinhibited mean NTE activity in spinal cord less than or equal to 61% and brain lessthan or equal to 60% produced this degree of cord damage in only 9% of the animals.These data indicate that a critical percentage of NTE inhibition in brain and spinalcord sampled shortly after Mipafox exposure can predict neuropathic damage in ratsseveral weeks later.
3714122	CID	mipafox	cord damage

3828020|t|Cerebral infarction with a single oral dose of phenylpropanolamine.Phenylpropanolamine (PPA), a synthetic sympathomimetic that is structurallysimilar to amphetamine, is available over the counter in anorectics, nasalcongestants, and cold preparations. Its prolonged use or overuse has been associatedwith seizures, intracerebral hemorrhage, neuropsychiatric symptoms, andnonhemorrhagic cerebral infarction. We report the case of a young woman who suffereda cerebral infarction after taking a single oral dose of PPA.
3828020	CID	phenylpropanolamine	neuropsychiatric symptoms
3828020	CID	phenylpropanolamine	seizures
3828020	CID	phenylpropanolamine	Cerebral infarction
3828020	CID	phenylpropanolamine	intracerebral hemorrhage

4812392|t|Treatment of psoriasis with azathioprine.Azathioprine treatment benefited 19 (66%) out of 29 patients suffering from severepsoriasis. Haematological complications were not troublesome and results ofbiochemical liver function tests remained normal. Minimal cholestasis was seen intwo cases and portal fibrosis of a reversible degree in eight. Liver biopsies shouldbe undertaken at regular intervals if azathioprine therapy is continued so thatstructural liver damage may be detected at an early and reversible stage.
4812392	CID	azathioprine	fibrosis
4812392	CID	azathioprine	cholestasis

6518066|t|Maternal lithium and neonatal Ebstein's anomaly: evaluation withcross-sectional echocardiography.Cross-sectional echocardiography was used to evaluate two neonates whose mothersingested lithium during pregnancy. In one infant, Ebstein's anomaly of thetricuspid valve was identified. In the other infant cross-sectional echocardiographyprovided reassurance that the infant did not have Ebstein's anomaly.Cross-sectional echocardiographic screening of newborns exposed to lithium duringgestation can provide highly accurate, noninvasive assessment of the presence orabsence of lithium-induced cardiac malformations.
6518066	CID	lithium	Ebstein's anomaly

6534871|t|Effects of training on the extent of experimental myocardial infarction in agingrats.The effects of exercise on the severity of isoproterenol-induced myocardialinfarction were studied in female albino rats of 20,40,60 and 80 weeks of age. Therats were trained to swim for a specific duration and for a particular period. Theoccurrence of infarcts were confirmed by histological methods. Elevations in theserum GOT and GPT were maximum in the sedentary-isoproterenols and minimum in theexercise-controls. These changes in the serum transaminases were associated withcorresponding depletions in the cardiac GOT and GPT. However, age was seen tointerfere with the responses exhibited by the young and old rats. Studies dealingwith myocardial infarction are more informative when dealt with age.
6534871	CID	isoproterenol	myocardial infarction

6538499|t|Effect of polyethylene glycol 400 on adriamycin toxicity in mice.The effect of a widely used organic solvent, polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG 400), onthe toxic action of an acute or chronic treatment with adriamycin (ADR) wasevaluated in mice. PEG 400 impressively decreased both acute high-dose and chroniclow-dose-ADR-associated lethality. Light microscopic analysis showed a significantprotection against ADR-induced cardiac morphological alterations. Such treatment didnot diminish the ADR antitumor activity in L1210 leukemia and in Ehrlich ascitestumor.
6538499	CID	adriamycin	cardiac morphological alterations

6747681|t|Intra-arterial BCNU chemotherapy for treatment of malignant gliomas of the centralnervous system.Because of the rapid systemic clearance of BCNU(1,3-bis-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea), intra-arterial administration shouldprovide a substantial advantage over intravenous administration for the treatment ofmalignant gliomas. Thirty-six patients were treated with BCNU every 6 to 8 weeks,either by transfemoral catheterization of the internal carotid or vertebral arteryor through a fully implantable intracarotid drug delivery system, beginning with adose of 200 mg/sq m body surface area. Twelve patients with Grade III or IVastrocytomas were treated after partial resection of the tumor without priorradiation therapy. After two to seven cycles of chemotherapy, nine patients showed adecrease in tumor size and surrounding edema on contrast-enhanced computerizedtomography scans. In the nine responders, median duration of chemotherapy responsefrom the time of operation was 25 weeks (range 12 to more than 91 weeks). The medianduration of survival in the 12 patients was 54 weeks (range 21 to more than 156weeks), with an 18-month survival rate of 42%. Twenty-four patients with recurrentGrade I to IV astrocytomas, whose resection and irradiation therapy had failed,received two to eight courses of intra-arterial BCNU therapy. Seventeen of these hada response or were stable for a median of 20 weeks (range 6 to more than 66 weeks).The catheterization procedure is safe, with no immediate complication in 111infusions of BCNU. A delayed complication in nine patients has been unilateral lossof vision secondary to a retinal vasculitis. The frequency of visual loss decreasedafter the concentration of the ethanol diluent was lowered.
6747681	CID	BCNU	retinal vasculitis

6861444|t|Blood pressure response to chronic low-dose intrarenal noradrenaline infusion inconscious rats.Sodium chloride solution (0.9%) or noradrenaline in doses of 4, 12 and 36micrograms h-1 kg-1 was infused for five consecutive days, either intrarenally (by anew technique) or intravenously into rats with one kidney removed. Intrarenalinfusion of noradrenaline caused hypertension at doses which did not do so wheninfused intravenously. Intrarenal compared with intravenous infusion ofnoradrenaline caused higher plasma noradrenaline concentrations and a shift of theplasma noradrenaline concentration-blood pressure effect curve towards lower plasmanoradrenaline levels. These results suggest that hypertension after chronicintrarenal noradrenaline infusion is produced by relatively higher levels ofcirculating noradrenaline and by triggering of an additional intrarenal pressormechanism.
6861444	CID	noradrenaline	hypertension

7053303|t|Age and renal clearance of cimetidine.In 35 patients (ages 20 to 86 yr) receiving cimetidine therapeutically two serumsamples and all urine formed in the interim were collected for analysis ofcimetidine by high-pressure liquid chromatography and for creatinine. Cimetidineclearance decreased with age. The extrapolated 6-hr serum concentration ofcimetidine per unit dose, after intravenous cimetidine, increased with age of thepatients. The ratio of cimetidine clearance to creatinine clearance (Rc) averaged4.8 +/- 2.0, indicating net tubular secretion for cimetidine. Rc seemed to beindependent of age and decreased with increasing serum concentration of cimetidine,suggesting that secretion of cimetidine is a saturable process. There was only onecase of dementia possibly due to cimetidine (with a drug level of 1.9 microgram/ml 6hr after a dose) in a group of 13 patients without liver or kidney disease who hadcimetidine levels above 1.25 microgram/ml. Thus, high cimetidine levels alone do notalways induce dementia.
7053303	CID	cimetidine	dementia

7088431|t|Development of clear cell adenocarcinoma in DES-exposed offspring underobservation.Two cases of clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina detected at follow-up inyoung women exposed in utero to diethylstilbestrol are reported. One patient, aged23, had been followed for 2 years before carcinoma was diagnosed; the secondpatient, aged 22, had been seen on a regular basis for 5 years, 8 months. In bothinstances, suspicion of the presence of carcinoma was aroused by the palpation of asmall nodule in the vaginal fornix. Hysterosalpingography was performed on bothpatients and, in 1 instance, an abnormal x-ray film was reflected by the grossappearance of the uterine cavity found in the surgical specimen.
7088431	CID	DES	adenocarcinoma of the vagina
7088431	CID	DES	clear cell adenocarcinoma

7248170|t|Phenobarbitone-induced enlargement of the liver in the rat: its relationship tocarbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis.The yield of severe cirrhosis of the liver (defined as a shrunken finely nodularliver with micronodular histology, ascites greater than 30 ml, plasma albumin lessthan 2.2 g/dl, splenomegaly 2-3 times normal, and testicular atrophy approximatelyhalf normal weight) after 12 doses of carbon tetrachloride given intragastrically inthe phenobarbitone-primed rat was increased from 25% to 56% by giving the initial"calibrating" dose of carbon tetrachloride at the peak of thephenobarbitone-induced enlargement of the liver. At this point it was assumed thatthe cytochrome P450/CCl4 toxic state was both maximal and stable. The optimal ratsize to begin phenobarbitone was determined as 100 g, and this size as a group had amean maximum relative liver weight increase 47% greater than normal rats of the samebody weight. The optimal time for the initial dose of carbon tetrachloride was after14 days on phenobarbitone.
7248170	CID	Phenobarbitone	cirrhosis of the liver
7248170	CID	carbon tetrachloride	cirrhosis of the liver
7248170	CID	Phenobarbitone	enlargement of the liver

7453952|t|Attenuation of the lithium-induced diabetes-insipidus-like syndrome by amiloridein rats.The effect of amiloride on lithium-induced polydipsia and polyuria and on thelithium concentration in the plasma, brain, kidney, thyroid and red blood cells wasinvestigated in rats, chronically treated with LiCl. Amiloride reduced the drinkingand urine volume of rats in an acute (6 or 12 h) and a subacute (3 days) experiment.6 h after the administration of amiloride, a reduction was observed in the lithiumcontent of the renal medulla but not in the other organs studied. At 12 h, all thetissues showed a slight increase in lithium levels. After 3 days of combinedtreatment, a marked elevation in plasma and tissue lithium levels accompanied areduction in water intake. In all the experiments, the attenuation of thelithium-induced diabetes-insipidus-like syndrome by amiloride was accompanied by areduction of the ratio between the lithium concentration in the renal medulla andits levels in the blood and an elevation in the plasma potassium level. It isconcluded that acute amiloride administration to lithium-treated patients sufferingfrom polydipsia and polyuria might relieve these patients but prolonged amiloridesupplementation would result in elevated lithium levels and might be hazardous.
7453952	CID	lithium	diabetes-insipidus-like syndrome

7802851|t|Safety and side-effects of alprazolam. Controlled study in agoraphobia with panicdisorder.BACKGROUND: The widespread use of benzodiazepines has led to increasingrecognition of their unwanted effects. The efficacy of alprazolam and placebo inpanic disorder with agoraphobia, and the side-effect and adverse effect profiles ofboth drug groups were measured. METHOD: In London and Toronto 154 patients who metDSM-III criteria for panic disorder with agoraphobia were randomised to alprazolamor placebo. Subjects in each drug group also received either exposure or relaxation.Treatment was from weeks 0 to 8 and was then tapered from weeks 8 to 16. RESULTS:Mean alprazolam dose was 5 mg daily. Compared with placebo subjects, alprazolampatients developed more adverse reactions (21% v. 0%) of depression, enuresis,disinhibition and aggression; and more side-effects, particularly sedation,irritability, impaired memory, weight loss and ataxia. Side-effects tended todiminish during treatment but remained significant at week 8. Despite this, thedrop-out rate was low. CONCLUSIONS: Alprazolam caused side-effects and adverseeffects during treatment but many patients were willing to accept these.
7802851	CID	alprazolam	ataxia
7802851	CID	alprazolam	impaired memory
7802851	CID	alprazolam	enuresis
7802851	CID	alprazolam	depression
7802851	CID	alprazolam	weight loss

8319760|t|Dup 753 prevents the development of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis.The appearance of nephrotic syndromes such as proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia,hypercholesterolemia and increase in blood nitrogen urea, induced in rats byinjection of puromycin aminonucleoside was markedly inhibited by oral administrationof Dup 753 (losartan), a novel angiotensin II receptor antagonist, at a dose of 1 or2 mg/kg per day. The results suggest a possible involvement of the renin-angiotensinsystem in the development of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis.
8319760	CID	puromycin aminonucleoside	hypercholesterolemia
8319760	CID	puromycin aminonucleoside	proteinuria
8319760	CID	puromycin aminonucleoside	nephrotic syndromes
8319760	CID	puromycin aminonucleoside	hypoalbuminemia

8386779|t|Sodium bicarbonate alleviates penile pain induced by intracavernous injections forerectile dysfunction.In an attempt to determine whether penile pain associated with intracorporealinjections could be due to the acidity of the medication, we performed a randomizedstudy comparing the incidence of penile pain following intracorporeal injectionswith or without the addition of sodium bicarbonate to the intracorporealmedications. A total of 38 consecutive patients who presented to our clinic withimpotence received 0.2 ml. of a combination of 3 drugs: 6 mg. papaverine, 100micrograms. phentolamine and 10 micrograms. prostaglandin E1 with (pH 7.05) orwithout (pH 4.17) the addition of sodium bicarbonate (0.03 mEq.). Of the 19 patientswithout sodium bicarbonate added to the medication 11 (58%) complained of penilepain due to the medication, while only 1 of the 19 men (5%) who received sodiumbicarbonate complained of penile pain. From these data we conclude that the penilepain following intracorporeal injections is most likely due to the acidity of themedication, which can be overcome by elevating the pH to a neutral level.
8386779	CID	phentolamine	penile pain
8386779	CID	prostaglandin E1	penile pain

8421099|t|Prospective study of the long-term effects of somatostatin analog (octreotide) ongallbladder function and gallstone formation in Chinese acromegalic patients.This article reports the changes in gallbladder function examined byultrasonography in 20 Chinese patients with active acromegaly treated with scinjection of the somatostatin analog octreotide in dosages of 300-1500micrograms/day for a mean of 24.2 +/- 13.9 months. During treatment with octreotide,17 patients developed sludge, 10 had gallstones, and 1 developed acute cholecystitisrequiring surgery. In all of 7 patients examined acutely, gallbladder contractilitywas inhibited after a single 100-micrograms injection. In 8 patients followed for 24weeks, gallbladder contractility remained depressed throughout therapy. Afterwithdrawal of octreotide in 10 patients without gallstones, 8 patients assessed hadreturn of normal gallbladder contractility within 1 month. In 8 of the remaining 10patients who developed gallstones during treatment, gallbladder contractilitynormalized in 5 patients (3 of whom has disappearance of their stones within 3weeks), and remained depressed in 3 (2 of whom had stones present at 6 months). Ourresults suggest that the suppression of gallbladder contractility is the cause ofthe successive formation of bile sludge, gallstones, and cholecystitis duringoctreotide therapy in Chinese acromegalic patients. It is therefore very importantto follow the changes of gallbladder function during long-term octreotide therapy ofacromegalic patients.
8421099	CID	octreotide	acute cholecystitis
8421099	CID	octreotide	gallstone

8649546|t|Improvement of levodopa-induced dyskinesia by propranolol in Parkinson'sdisease.Seven patients suffering from Parkinson's disease (PD) with severelydisabling dyskinesia received low-dose propranolol as an adjunct to the currentlyused medical treatment. There was a significant 40% improvement in the dyskinesiascore without increase of parkinsonian motor disability. Ballistic and choreicdyskinesia were markedly ameliorated, whereas dystonia was not. This study suggeststhat administration of low doses of beta-blockers may improve levodopa-inducedballistic and choreic dyskinesia in PD.
8649546	CID	levodopa	dyskinesia

8919272|t|Morphological features of encephalopathy after chronic administration of theantiepileptic drug valproate to rats. A transmission electron microscopic study ofcapillaries in the cerebellar cortex.Long-term intragastric application of the antiepileptic drug sodium valproate(Vupral "Polfa") at the effective dose of 200 mg/kg b. w. once daily torats for 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months revealed neurological disorders indicatingcerebellum damage ("valproate encephalopathy"). The first ultrastructuralchanges in structural elements of the blood-brain-barrier (BBB) in the cerebellarcortex were detectable after 3 months of the experiment. They became more severe inthe later months of the experiment, and were most severe after 12 months, locatedmainly in the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex. Lesions of the capillaryincluded necrosis of endothelial cells. Organelles of these cells, in particular themitochondria (increased number and size, distinct degeneration of their matrix andcristae) and Golgi apparatus were altered. Reduced size of capillary lumen andocclusion were caused by swollen endothelial cells which had luminal protrusions andswollen microvilli. Pressure on the vessel wall was produced by enlargedperivascular astrocytic processes. Fragments of necrotic endothelial cells were inthe vascular lumens and in these there was loosening and breaking of tight cellularjunctions. Damage to the vascular basement lamina was also observed. Damage to thecapillary was accompanied by marked damage to neuroglial cells, mainly toperivascular processes of astrocytes. The proliferation of astrocytes(Bergmann's in particular) and occasionally of oligodendrocytes was found.Alterations in the structural elements of the BBB coexisted with marked lesions ofneurons of the cerebellum (Purkinje cells are earliest). In electron micrographsboth luminal and antiluminal sides of the BBB of the cerebellar cortex had similarlesions. The possible influence of the hepatic damage, mainly hyperammonemia, uponthe development of valproate encephalopathy is discussed.
8919272	CID	valproate	encephalopathy

9199746|t|Macula toxicity after intravitreal amikacin.BACKGROUND: Although intravitreal aminoglycosides have substantially improvedvisual prognosis in endophthalmitis, macular infarction may impair full visualrecovery. METHODS: We present a case of presumed amikacin retinal toxicity followingtreatment with amikacin and vancomycin for alpha-haemolytic streptococcalendophthalmitis. RESULTS: Endophthalmitis resolved with improvement in visual acuityto 6/24 at three months. Fundus fluorescein angiography confirmed macular capillaryclosure and telangiectasis. CONCLUSIONS: Currently accepted intravitreal antibioticregimens may cause retinal toxicity and macular ischaemia. Treatment strategiesaimed at avoiding retinal toxicity are discussed.
9199746	CID	amikacin	ischaemia
9199746	CID	amikacin	retinal toxicity

9249847|t|Iatrogenically induced intractable atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia afterverapamil and catheter ablation in a patient with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome andidiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.In a patient with WPW syndrome and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy, intractableatrioventricular reentrant tachycardia (AVRT) was iatrogenically induced. QRSwithout preexcitation, caused by junctional escape beats after verapamil orunidirectional antegrade block of accessory pathway after catheter ablation,established frequent AVRT attack.
9249847	CID	verapamil	atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia

9284778|t|Epidemic of liver disease caused by hydrochlorofluorocarbons used as ozone-sparingsubstitutes of chlorofluorocarbons.BACKGROUND: Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) are used increasingly in industry assubstitutes for ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). Limited studies inanimals indicate potential hepatotoxicity of some of these compounds. Weinvestigated an epidemic of liver disease in nine industrial workers who had hadrepeated accidental exposure to a mixture of 1,1-dichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane(HCFC 123) and 1-chloro-1,2,2,2-tetrafluoroethane (HCFC 124). All nine exposedworkers were affected to various degrees. Both compounds are metabolised in the sameway as 1-bromo-1-chloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (halothane) to form reactivetrifluoroacetyl halide intermediates, which have been implicated in thehepatotoxicity of halothane. We aimed to test whether HCFCs 123 and 124 can resultin serious liver disease. METHODS: For one severely affected worker liver biopsy andimmunohistochemical stainings for the presence of trifluoroacetyl protein adductswere done. The serum of six affected workers and five controls was tested forautoantibodies that react with human liver cytochrome-P450 2E1 (P450 2E1) and P58protein disulphide isomerase isoform (P58). FINDINGS: The liver biopsy sample showedhepatocellular necrosis which was prominent in perivenular zone three and extendedfocally from portal tracts to portal tracts and centrilobular areas (bridgingnecrosis). Trifluoroacetyl-adducted proteins were detected in surviving hepatocytes.Autoantibodies against P450 2E1 or P58, previously associated with halothanehepatitis, were detected in the serum of five affected workers. INTERPRETATION:Repeated exposure of human beings to HCFCs 123 and 124 can result in serious liverinjury in a large proportion of the exposed population. Although the exact mechanismof hepatotoxicity of these agents is not known, the results suggest thattrifluoroacetyl-altered liver proteins are involved. In view of the potentiallywidespread use of these compounds, there is an urgent need to develop saferalternatives.
9284778	CID	1-chloro-1,2,2,2-tetrafluoroethane	liver disease
9284778	CID	1,1-dichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane	liver disease

9522143|t|The effect of different anaesthetic agents in hearing loss following spinalanaesthesia.The cause of hearing loss after spinal anaesthesia is unknown. Up until now, theonly factor studied has been the effect of the diameter of the spinal needle onpost-operative sensorineural hearing loss. The aim of this study was to describethis hearing loss and to investigate other factors influencing the degree of hearingloss. Two groups of 22 similar patients were studied: one group received 6 mLprilocaine 2%; and the other received 3 mL bupivacaine 0.5%. Patients givenprilocaine were more likely to develop hearing loss (10 out of 22) than those givenbupivacaine (4 out of 22) (P < 0.05). The average hearing loss for speechfrequencies was about 10 dB after prilocaine and 15 dB after bupivacaine. None ofthe patients complained of subjective hearing loss. Long-term follow-up of thepatients was not possible.
9522143	CID	prilocaine	hearing loss
9522143	CID	bupivacaine	hearing loss

9522152|t|A transient neurological deficit following intrathecal injection of 1% hyperbaricbupivacaine for unilateral spinal anaesthesia.We describe a case of transient neurological deficit that occurred afterunilateral spinal anaesthesia with 8 mg of 1% hyperbaric bupivacaine slowly injectedthrough a 25-gauge pencil-point spinal needle. The surgery and anaesthesia wereuneventful, but 3 days after surgery, the patient reported an area of hypoaesthesiaover L3-L4 dermatomes of the leg which had been operated on (loss of pinpricksensation) without reduction in muscular strength. Sensation in this area returnedto normal over the following 2 weeks. Prospective multicentre studies with a largepopulation and a long follow-up should be performed in order to evaluate theincidence of this unusual side effect. However, we suggest that a low solutionconcentration should be preferred for unilateral spinal anaesthesia with ahyperbaric anaesthetic solution (if pencil-point needle and slow injection rate areemployed), in order to minimize the risk of a localized high peak anaestheticconcentration, which might lead to a transient neurological deficit.
9522152	CID	bupivacaine	loss of pinprick sensation

9672936|t|Pethidine-associated seizure in a healthy adolescent receiving pethidine forpostoperative pain control.A healthy 17-year-old male received standard intermittent doses of pethidine via apatient-controlled analgesia (PCA) pump for management of postoperative paincontrol. Twenty-three h postoperatively he developed a brief self-limited seizure.Both plasma pethidine and norpethidine were elevated in the range associated withclinical manifestations of central nervous system excitation. No other risk factorsfor CNS toxicity were identified. This method allowed frequent self-dosing ofpethidine at short time intervals and rapid accumulation of pethidine andnorpethidine. The routine use of pethidine via PCA even for a brief postoperativeanalgesia should be reconsidered.
9672936	CID	Pethidine	seizure

9721172|t|Drug-associated acute-onset vanishing bile duct and Stevens-Johnson syndromes in achild.Acute vanishing bile duct syndrome is a rare but established cause of progressivecholestasis in adults, is most often drug or toxin related, and is of unknownpathogenesis. It has not been reported previously in children. Stevens-Johnsonsyndrome is a well-recognized immune complex-mediated hypersensitivity reaction thataffects all age groups, is drug or infection induced, and has classic systemic,mucosal, and dermatologic manifestations. A previously healthy child who developedacute, severe, rapidly progressive vanishing bile duct syndrome shortly afterStevens-Johnson syndrome is described; this was temporally associated with ibuprofenuse. Despite therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid, prednisone, and then tacrolimus, hercholestatic disease was unrelenting, with cirrhosis shown by biopsy 6 months afterpresentation. This case documents acute drug-related vanishing bile duct syndrome inthe pediatric age group and suggests shared immune mechanisms in the pathogenesis ofboth Stevens-Johnson syndrome and vanishing bile duct syndrome.
9721172	CID	ibuprofen	Stevens-Johnson syndromes
9721172	CID	ibuprofen	cholestasis

9727773|t|High incidence of primary pulmonary hypertension associated with appetitesuppressants in Belgium.Primary pulmonary hypertension is a rare, progressive and incurable disease, whichhas been associated with the intake of appetite suppressant drugs. The importance ofthis association was evaluated in Belgium while this country still had norestriction on the prescription of appetite suppressants. Thirty-five patients withprimary pulmonary hypertension and 85 matched controls were recruited over 32 months(1992-1994) in Belgium. Exposure to appetite-suppressants was assessed on the basisof hospital records and standardized interview. Twenty-three of the patients hadpreviously taken appetite suppressants, mainly fenfluramines, as compared with only5 of the controls (66 versus 6%, p<0.0001). Five patients died before theinterview, all of them had taken appetite suppressants. In 8 patients the diagnosisof primary pulmonary hypertension was uncertain, 5 of them had taken appetitesuppressants. The patients who had been exposed to appetite suppressants tended tobe on average more severely ill, and to have a shorter median delay between onset ofsymptoms and diagnosis. A policy of unrestricted prescription of appetitesuppressants may lead to a high incidence of associated primary pulmonaryhypertension. Intake of appetite suppressants may accelerate the progression of thedisease.
9727773	CID	fenfluramines	primary pulmonary hypertension
9727773	CID	appetite suppressants	primary pulmonary hypertension

9754849|t|Choreoathetoid movements associated with rapid adjustment to methadone.Choreatiform hyperkinesias are known to be occasional movement abnormalitiesduring intoxications with cocaine but not opiates. This is a case report of euphoriaand choreoathetoid movements both transiently induced by rapid adjustment to theselective mu-opioid receptor agonist methadone in an inpatient previously abusingheroine and cocaine. In addition, minor EEG abnormalities occurred. Possibleunderlying neurobiological phenomena are discussed.
9754849	CID	methadone	Choreoathetoid movements
9754849	CID	cocaine	hyperkinesias
9754849	CID	cocaine	Choreoathetoid movements

10365197|t|Cocaine-induced mood disorder: prevalence rates and psychiatric symptoms in anoutpatient cocaine-dependent sample.This paper attempts to examine and compare prevalence rates and symptom patternsof DSM substance-induced and other mood disorders. 243 cocaine-dependent outpatientswith cocaine-induced mood disorder (CIMD), other mood disorders, or no mood disorderwere compared on measures of psychiatric symptoms. The prevalence rate for CIMD was12% at baseline. Introduction of the DSM-IV diagnosis of CIMD did not substantiallyaffect rates of the other depressive disorders. Patients with CIMD had symptomseverity levels between those of patients with and without a mood disorder. Thesefindings suggest some validity for the new DSM-IV diagnosis of CIMD, but alsosuggest that it requires further specification and replication.
10365197	CID	Cocaine	mood disorder

10704919|t|Hemolysis of human erythrocytes induced by tamoxifen is related to disruption ofmembrane structure.Tamoxifen (TAM), the antiestrogenic drug most widely prescribed in thechemotherapy of breast cancer, induces changes in normal discoid shape oferythrocytes and hemolytic anemia. This work evaluates the effects of TAM onisolated human erythrocytes, attempting to identify the underlying mechanisms onTAM-induced hemolytic anemia and the involvement of biomembranes in its cytostaticaction mechanisms. TAM induces hemolysis of erythrocytes as a function ofconcentration. The extension of hemolysis is variable with erythrocyte samples, but12.5 microM TAM induces total hemolysis of all tested suspensions. Despite inducingextensive erythrocyte lysis, TAM does not shift the osmotic fragility curves oferythrocytes. The hemolytic effect of TAM is prevented by low concentrations ofalpha-tocopherol (alpha-T) and alpha-tocopherol acetate (alpha-TAc) (inactivatedfunctional hydroxyl) indicating that TAM-induced hemolysis is not related tooxidative membrane damage. This was further evidenced by absence of oxygenconsumption and hemoglobin oxidation both determined in parallel with TAM-inducedhemolysis. Furthermore, it was observed that TAM inhibits the peroxidation of humanerythrocytes induced by AAPH, thus ruling out TAM-induced cell oxidative stress.Hemolysis caused by TAM was not preceded by the leakage of K(+) from the cells, alsoexcluding a colloid-osmotic type mechanism of hemolysis, according to the effects onosmotic fragility curves. However, TAM induces release of peripheral proteins ofmembrane-cytoskeleton and cytosol proteins essentially bound to band 3. Eitheralpha-T or alpha-TAc increases membrane packing and prevents TAM partition intomodel membranes. These effects suggest that the protection from hemolysis bytocopherols is related to a decreased TAM incorporation in condensed membranes andthe structural damage of the erythrocyte membrane is consequently avoided.Therefore, TAM-induced hemolysis results from a structural perturbation of red cellmembrane, leading to changes in the framework of the erythrocyte membrane and itscytoskeleton caused by its high partition in the membrane. These defects explain theabnormal erythrocyte shape and decreased mechanical stability promoted by TAM,resulting in hemolytic anemia. Additionally, since membrane leakage is a final stageof cytotoxicity, the disruption of the structural characteristics of biomembranes byTAM may contribute to the multiple mechanisms of its anticancer action.
10704919	CID	tamoxifen	Hemolysis
10704919	CID	tamoxifen	hemolytic anemia

10706004|t|Changes of sodium and ATP affinities of the cardiac (Na,K)-ATPase during and afternitric oxide deficient hypertension.In the cardiovascular system, NO is involved in the regulation of a variety offunctions. Inhibition of NO synthesis induces sustained hypertension. In severalmodels of hypertension, elevation of intracellular sodium level was documented incardiac tissue. To assess the molecular basis of disturbances in transmembraneoustransport of Na+, we studied the response of cardiac (Na,K)-ATPase to NO-deficienthypertension induced in rats by NO-synthase inhibition with 40 mg/kg/dayN(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) for 4 four weeks. After 4-weekadministration of L-NAME, the systolic blood pressure (SBP) increased by 36%. Twoweeks after terminating the treatment, the SBP recovered to control value. Whenactivating the (Na,K)-ATPase with its substrate ATP, no changes in Km and Vmaxvalues were observed in NO-deficient rats. During activation with Na+, the Vmaxremained unchanged, however the K(Na) increased by 50%, indicating a profounddecrease in the affinity of the Na+-binding site in NO-deficient rats. Afterrecovery from hypertension, the activity of (Na,K)-ATPase increased, due to higheraffinity of the ATP-binding site, as revealed from the lowered Km value for ATP. TheK(Na) value for Na+ returned to control value. Inhibition of NO-synthase induced areversible hypertension accompanied by depressed Na+-extrusion from cardiac cells asa consequence of deteriorated Na+-binding properties of the (Na,K)-ATPase. Afterrecovery of blood pressure to control values, the extrusion of Na+ from cardiaccells was normalized, as revealed by restoration of the (Na,K)-ATPase activity.
10706004	CID	nitric oxide	hypertension

10721819|t|Effects of long-term pretreatment with isoproterenol on bromocriptine-inducedtachycardia in conscious rats.It has been shown that bromocriptine-induced tachycardia, which persisted afteradrenalectomy, is (i) mediated by central dopamine D2 receptor activation and (ii)reduced by 5-day isoproterenol pretreatment, supporting therefore the hypothesisthat this effect is dependent on sympathetic outflow to the heart. This study wasconducted to examine whether prolonged pretreatment with isoproterenol could abolishbromocriptine-induced tachycardia in conscious rats. Isoproterenol pretreatment for15 days caused cardiac hypertrophy without affecting baseline blood pressure andheart rate. In control rats, intravenous bromocriptine (150 microg/kg) inducedsignificant hypotension and tachycardia. Bromocriptine-induced hypotension wasunaffected by isoproterenol pretreatment, while tachycardia was reversed tosignificant bradycardia, an effect that was partly reduced by i.v. domperidone (0.5mg/kg). Neither cardiac vagal nor sympathetic tone was altered by isoproterenolpretreatment. In isolated perfused heart preparations from isoproterenol-pretreatedrats, the isoproterenol-induced maximal increase in left ventricular systolicpressure was significantly reduced, compared with saline-pretreated rats (the EC50of the isoproterenol-induced increase in left ventricular systolic pressure wasenhanced approximately 22-fold). These results show that 15-day isoproterenolpretreatment not only abolished but reversed bromocriptine-induced tachycardia tobradycardia, an effect that is mainly related to further cardiac beta-adrenoceptordesensitization rather than to impairment of autonomic regulation of the heart. Theysuggest that, in normal conscious rats, the central tachycardia of bromocriptineappears to predominate and to mask the bradycardia of this agonist at peripheraldopamine D2 receptors.
10721819	CID	isoproterenol	bradycardia
10721819	CID	domperidone	bradycardia
10721819	CID	bromocriptine	hypotension
10721819	CID	isoproterenol	cardiac hypertrophy
10721819	CID	bromocriptine	tachycardia

10737864|t|A developmental analysis of clonidine's effects on cardiac rate andultrasound production in infant rats.Under controlled conditions, infant rats emit ultrasonic vocalizations duringextreme cold exposure and after administration of the alpha(2) adrenoceptor agonist,clonidine. Previous investigations have determined that, in response to clonidine,ultrasound production increases through the 2nd-week postpartum and decreasesthereafter. Given that sympathetic neural dominance exhibits a similar developmentalpattern, and given that clonidine induces sympathetic withdrawal and bradycardia, wehypothesized that clonidine's developmental effects on cardiac rate andultrasound production would mirror each other. Therefore, in the present experiment,the effects of clonidine administration (0.5 mg/kg) on cardiac rate and ultrasoundproduction were examined in 2-, 8-, 15-, and 20-day-old rats. Age-related changes inultrasound production corresponded with changes in cardiovascular variables,including baseline cardiac rate and clonidine-induced bradycardia. This experimentis discussed with regard to the hypothesis that ultrasound production is theacoustic by-product of a physiological maneuver that compensates forclonidine's detrimental effects on cardiovascular function.
10737864	CID	clonidine	bradycardia

10743446|t|Differential effects of systemically administered ketamine and lidocaine ondynamic and static hyperalgesia induced by intradermal capsaicin in humans.We have examined the effect of systemic administration of ketamine and lidocaineon brush-evoked (dynamic) pain and punctate-evoked (static) hyperalgesia induced bycapsaicin. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study, westudied 12 volunteers in three experiments. Capsaicin 100 micrograms was injectedintradermally on the volar forearm followed by an i.v. infusion of ketamine (bolus0.1 mg kg-1 over 10 min followed by infusion of 7 micrograms kg-1 min-1), lidocaine5 mg kg-1 or saline for 50 min. Infusion started 15 min after injection ofcapsaicin. The following were measured: spontaneous pain, pain evoked by punctateand brush stimuli (VAS), and areas of brush-evoked and punctate-evoked hyperalgesia.Ketamine reduced both the area of brush-evoked and punctate-evoked hyperalgesiasignificantly and it tended to reduce brush-evoked pain. Lidocaine reduced the areaof punctate-evoked hyperalgesia significantly. It tended to reduce VAS scores ofspontaneous pain but had no effect on evoked pain. The differential effects ofketamine and lidocaine on static and dynamic hyperalgesia suggest that the two typesof hyperalgesia are mediated by separate mechanisms and have a distinctpharmacology.
10743446	CID	capsaicin	hyperalgesia
10743446	CID	capsaicin	pain

11007689|t|Cyclosporine and tacrolimus-associated thrombotic microangiopathy.The development of thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) associated with the use ofcyclosporine has been well documented. Treatments have included discontinuation orreduction of cyclosporine dose with or without concurrent plasma exchange, plasmainfusion, anticoagulation, and intravenous immunoglobulin G infusion. However, forrecipients of organ transplantation, removing the inciting agent is not without theattendant risk of precipitating acute rejection and graft loss. The last decade hasseen the emergence of tacrolimus as a potent immunosuppressive agent with mechanismsof action virtually identical to those of cyclosporine. As a result, switching totacrolimus has been reported to be a viable therapeutic option in the setting ofcyclosporine-induced TMA. With the more widespread application of tacrolimus inorgan transplantation, tacrolimus-associated TMA has also been recognized. However,literature regarding the incidence of the recurrence of TMA in patients exposedsequentially to cyclosporine and tacrolimus is limited. We report a case of a livingdonor renal transplant recipient who developed cyclosporine-induced TMA thatresponded to the withdrawal of cyclosporine in conjunction with plasmapheresis andfresh frozen plasma replacement therapy. Introduction of tacrolimus as analternative immunosuppressive agent resulted in the recurrence of TMA and thesubsequent loss of the renal allograft. Patients who are switched from cyclosporineto tacrolimus or vice versa should be closely monitored for the signs and symptomsof recurrent TMA.
11007689	CID	Cyclosporine	thrombotic microangiopathy
11007689	CID	tacrolimus	thrombotic microangiopathy

11256525|t|Repeated transient anuria following losartan administration in a patient with asolitary kidney.We report the case of a 70-year-old hypertensive man with a solitary kidney andchronic renal insufficiency who developed two episodes of transient anuria afterlosartan administration. He was hospitalized for a myocardial infarction withpulmonary edema, treated with high-dose diuretics. Due to severe systolicdysfunction losartan was prescribed. Surprisingly, the first dose of 50 mg oflosartan resulted in a sudden anuria, which lasted eight hours despite high-dosefurosemide and amine infusion. One week later, by mistake, losartan was prescribedagain and after the second dose of 50 mg, the patient developed a second episode oftransient anuria lasting 10 hours. During these two episodes, his blood pressurediminished but no severe hypotension was noted. Ultimately, an arteriography showeda 70-80% renal artery stenosis. In this patient, renal artery stenosis combined withheart failure and diuretic therapy certainly resulted in a strong activation of therenin-angiotensin system (RAS). Under such conditions, angiotensin II receptorblockade by losartan probably induced a critical fall in glomerular filtrationpressure. This case report highlights the fact that the angiotensin II receptorantagonist losartan can cause serious unexpected complications in patients withrenovascular disease and should be used with extreme caution in this setting.
11256525	CID	losartan	anuria

11334364|t|In vivo protection of dna damage associated apoptotic and necrotic cell deathsduring acetaminophen-induced nephrotoxicity, amiodarone-induced lung toxicity anddoxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity by a novel IH636 grape seed proanthocyanidinextract.Grape seed extract, primarily a mixture of proanthocyanidins, has been shown tomodulate a wide-range of biological, pharmacological and toxicological effects whichare mainly cytoprotective. This study assessed the ability of IH636 grape seedproanthocyanidin extract (GSPE) to prevent acetaminophen (AAP)-inducednephrotoxicity, amiodarone (AMI)-induced lung toxicity, and doxorubicin(DOX)-induced cardiotoxicity in mice. Experimental design consisted of four groups:control (vehicle alone), GSPE alone, drug alone and GSPE+drug. For thecytoprotection study, animals were orally gavaged 100 mg/Kg GSPE for 7-10 daysfollowed by i.p. injections of organ specific three drugs (AAP: 500 mg/Kg for 24 h;AMI: 50 mg/Kg/day for four days; DOX: 20 mg/Kg for 48 h). Parameters of studyincluded analysis of serum chemistry (ALT, BUN and CPK), and orderly fragmentationof genomic DNA (both endonuclease-dependent and independent) in addition tomicroscopic evaluation of damage and/or protection in corresponding PAS stainedtissues. Results indicate that GSPE preexposure prior to AAP, AMI and DOX, providednear complete protection in terms of serum chemistry changes (ALT, BUN and CPK), andsignificantly reduced DNA fragmentation. Histopathological examination of kidney,heart and lung sections revealed moderate to massive tissue damage with a variety ofmorphological aberrations by all the three drugs in the absence of GSPE preexposurethan in its presence. GSPE+drug exposed tissues exhibited minor residual damage ornear total recovery. Additionally, histopathological alterations mirrored both serumchemistry changes and the pattern of DNA fragmentation. Interestingly, all thedrugs, such as, AAP, AMI and DOX induced apoptotic death in addition to necrosis inthe respective organs which was very effectively blocked by GSPE. Since AAP, AMI andDOX undergo biotransformation and are known to produce damaging radicals in vivo,the protection by GSPE may be linked to both inhibition of metabolism and/ordetoxification of cytotoxic radicals. In addition, its' presumed contributionto DNA repair may be another important attribute, which played a role in thechemoprevention process. Additionally, this may have been the first report onAMI-induced apoptotic death in the lung tissue. Taken together, these eventsundoubtedly establish GSPE's abundant bioavailability, and the power to defendmultiple target organs from toxic assaults induced by structurally diverse andfunctionally different entities in vivo.
11334364	CID	amiodarone	necrotic
11334364	CID	doxorubicin	necrotic
11334364	CID	acetaminophen	necrotic
11334364	CID	acetaminophen	nephrotoxicity
11334364	CID	amiodarone	lung toxicity
11334364	CID	doxorubicin	cardiotoxicity

11642480|t|Palpebral twitching in a depressed adolescent on citalopram.Current estimates suggest that between 0.4% and 8.3% of children and adolescentsare affected by major depression. We report a favorable response to treatment withcitalopram by a 15-year-old boy with major depression who exhibited palpebraltwitching during his first 2 weeks of treatment. This may have been a side effect ofcitalopram as it remitted with redistribution of doses.
11642480	CID	citalopram	Palpebral twitching

12063090|t|Metamizol potentiates morphine antinociception but not constipation after chronictreatment.This work evaluates the antinociceptive and constipating effects of thecombination of 3.2 mg/kg s.c. morphine with 177.8 mg/kg s.c. metamizol in acutelyand chronically treated (once a day for 12 days) rats. On the 13th day,antinociceptive effects were assessed using a model of inflammatory nociception,pain-induced functional impairment model, and the charcoal meal test was used toevaluate the intestinal transit. Simultaneous administration of morphine withmetamizol resulted in a markedly antinociceptive potentiation and an increasing ofthe duration of action after a single (298+/-7 vs. 139+/-36 units area (ua);P<0.001) and repeated administration (280+/-17 vs. 131+/-22 ua; P<0.001).Antinociceptive effect of morphine was reduced in chronically treated rats (39+/-10vs. 18+/-5 au) while the combination-induced antinociception was remained similar asan acute treatment (298+/-7 vs. 280+/-17 au). Acute antinociceptive effects of thecombination were partially prevented by 3.2 mg/kg naloxone s.c. (P<0.05),suggesting the partial involvement of the opioidergic system in the synergismobserved. In independent groups, morphine inhibited the intestinal transit in48+/-4% and 38+/-4% after acute and chronic treatment, respectively, suggesting thattolerance did not develop to the constipating effects. The combination inhibitedintestinal transit similar to that produced by morphine regardless of the time oftreatment, suggesting that metamizol did not potentiate morphine-inducedconstipation. These findings show a significant interaction between morphine andmetamizol in chronically treated rats, suggesting that this combination could beuseful for the treatment of chronic pain.
12063090	CID	morphine	constipation

12084448|t|Ifosfamide encephalopathy presenting with asterixis.CNS toxic effects of the antineoplastic agent ifosfamide (IFX) are frequent andinclude a variety of neurological symptoms that can limit drug use. We report a caseof a 51-year-old man who developed severe, disabling negative myoclonus of the upperand lower extremities after the infusion of ifosfamide for plasmacytoma. He wasawake, revealed no changes of mental status and at rest there were no further motorsymptoms. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging and extensive laboratory studies failedto reveal structural lesions of the brain and metabolic abnormalities. Anelectroencephalogram showed continuous, generalized irregular slowing with admixedperiodic triphasic waves indicating symptomatic encephalopathy. The administrationof ifosfamide was discontinued and within 12 h the asterixis resolved completely. Inthe patient described, the presence of asterixis during infusion of ifosfamide,normal laboratory findings and imaging studies and the resolution of symptomsfollowing the discontinuation of the drug suggest that negative myoclonus isassociated with the use of IFX.
12084448	CID	Ifosfamide	myoclonus
12084448	CID	Ifosfamide	encephalopathy

12684739|t|Sub-chronic low dose gamma-vinyl GABA (vigabatrin) inhibits cocaine-inducedincreases in nucleus accumbens dopamine.RATIONALE: gamma-Vinyl GABA (GVG) irreversibly inhibits GABA-transaminase. Thisnon-receptor mediated inhibition requires de novo synthesis for restoration offunctional GABA catabolism. OBJECTIVES: Given its preclinical success for treatingsubstance abuse and the increased risk of visual field defects (VFD) associated withcumulative lifetime exposure, we explored the effects of sub-chronic low dose GVG oncocaine-induced increases in nucleus accumbens (NAcc) dopamine (DA). METHODS: Usingin vivo microdialysis, we compared acute exposure (450 mg/kg) to an identicalsub-chronic exposure (150 mg/kg per day for 3 days), followed by 1- or 3-daywashout. Finally, we examined the low dose of 150 mg/kg (50 mg/kg per day) using asimilar washout period. RESULTS: Sub-chronic GVG exposure inhibited the effect ofcocaine for 3 days, which exceeded in magnitude and duration the identical acutedose. CONCLUSIONS: Sub-chronic low dose GVG potentiates and extends the inhibitionof cocaine-induced increases in dopamine, effectively reducing cumulative exposuresand the risk for VFDS.
12684739	CID	gamma-vinyl GABA	visual field defects

12716030|t|Amount of bleeding and hematoma size in the collagenase-induced intracerebralhemorrhage rat model.The aggravated risk on intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) with drugs used for strokepatients should be estimated carefully. We therefore established sensitivequantification methods and provided a rat ICH model for detection of ICHdeterioration. In ICH intrastriatally induced by 0.014-unit, 0.070-unit, and0.350-unit collagenase, the amount of bleeding was measured using a hemoglobin assaydeveloped in the present study and was compared with the morphologically determinedhematoma volume. The blood amounts and hematoma volumes were significantlycorrelated, and the hematoma induced by 0.014-unit collagenase was adequate todetect ICH deterioration. In ICH induction using 0.014-unit collagenase, heparinenhanced the hematoma volume 3.4-fold over that seen in control ICH animals and thebleeding 7.6-fold. Data suggest that this sensitive hemoglobin assay is useful forICH detection, and that a model with a small ICH induced with a low-dose collagenaseshould be used for evaluation of drugs that may affect ICH.
12716030	CID	heparin	hematoma

12757899|t|Estradiol reduces seizure-induced hippocampal injury in ovariectomized female butnot in male rats.Estrogens protect ovariectomized rats from hippocampal injury induced by kainicacid-induced status epilepticus (SE). We compared the effects of 17beta-estradiol inadult male and ovariectomized female rats subjected to lithium-pilocarpine-inducedSE. Rats received subcutaneous injections of 17beta-estradiol (2 microg/rat) or oilonce daily for four consecutive days. SE was induced 20 h following the secondinjection and terminated 3 h later. The extent of silver-stained CA3 and CA1hippocampal neurons was evaluated 2 days after SE. 17beta-Estradiol did not alterthe onset of first clonus in ovariectomized rats but accelerated it in males.17beta-Estradiol reduced the argyrophilic neurons in the CA1 and CA3-C sectors ofovariectomized rats. In males, estradiol increased the total damage score. Thesefindings suggest that the effects of estradiol on seizure threshold and damage maybe altered by sex-related differences in the hormonal environment.
12757899	CID	lithium	status epilepticus
12757899	CID	lithium	hippocampal injury
12757899	CID	pilocarpine	status epilepticus
12757899	CID	pilocarpine	hippocampal injury

12905102|t|Delirium during clozapine treatment: incidence and associated risk factors.BACKGROUND: Incidence and risk factors for delirium during clozapine treatmentrequire further clarification. METHODS: We used computerized pharmacy records toidentify all adult psychiatric inpatients treated with clozapine (1995-96), reviewedtheir medical records to score incidence and severity of delirium, and testedassociations with potential risk factors. RESULTS: Subjects (n = 139) were 72 womenand 67 men, aged 40.8 +/- 12.1 years, hospitalized for 24.9 +/- 23.3 days, and givenclozapine, gradually increased to an average daily dose of 282 +/- 203 mg (3.45 +/-2.45 mg/kg) for 18.9 +/- 16.4 days. Delirium was diagnosed in 14 (10.1 % incidence,or 1.48 cases/person-years of exposure); 71.4 % of cases were moderate or severe.Associated factors were co-treatment with other centrally antimuscarinic agents,poor clinical outcome, older age, and longer hospitalization (by 17.5 days,increasing cost); sex, diagnosis or medical co-morbidity, and daily clozapine dose,which fell with age, were unrelated. CONCLUSIONS: Delirium was found in 10 % ofclozapine-treated inpatients, particularly in older patients exposed to othercentral anticholinergics. Delirium was inconsistently recognized clinically inmilder cases and was associated with increased length-of-stay and higher costs, andinferior clinical outcome.
12905102	CID	clozapine	Delirium

14513889|t|Ketoconazole-induced neurologic sequelae.A 77-y-old patient developed weakness of extremities, legs paralysis, dysarthriaand tremor 1 h after ingestion of 200 mg ketoconazole for the first time in hislife. All complaints faded away within 24 h. Few days later, the patient usedanother 200 mg ketoconazole tablet, and within an hour experienced a similarclinical picture, which resolved again spontaneously within hours. Laboratoryevaluations, including head CT scan, were normal. This case illustrates the need forclose vigilance in adverse drug reactions, particularly in the elderly.
14513889	CID	Ketoconazole	dysarthria
14513889	CID	Ketoconazole	weakness of extremities
14513889	CID	Ketoconazole	tremor
14513889	CID	Ketoconazole	legs paralysis

15009014|t|Noxious chemical stimulation of rat facial mucosa increases intracranial bloodflow through a trigemino-parasympathetic reflex--an experimental model for vasculardysfunctions in cluster headache.Cluster headache is characterized by typical autonomic dysfunctions includingfacial and intracranial vascular disturbances. Both the trigeminal and the cranialparasympathetic systems may be involved in mediating these dysfunctions. Anexperimental model was developed in the rat to measure changes in lacrimation andintracranial blood flow following noxious chemical stimulation of facial mucosa.Blood flow was monitored in arteries of the exposed cranial dura mater and theparietal cortex using laser Doppler flowmetry. Capsaicin (0.01-1 mm) applied to oralor nasal mucosa induced increases in dural and cortical blood flow and provokedlacrimation. These responses were blocked by systemic pre-administration ofhexamethonium chloride (20 mg/kg). The evoked increases in dural blood flow werealso abolished by topical pre-administration of atropine (1 mm) and [Lys1, Pro2,5,Arg3,4, Tyr6]-VIP (0.1 mm), a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) antagonist,onto the exposed dura mater. We conclude that noxious stimulation of facial mucosaincreases intracranial blood flow and lacrimation via a trigemino-parasympatheticreflex. The blood flow responses seem to be mediated by the release of acetylcholineand VIP within the meninges. Similar mechanisms may be involved in the pathogenesisof cluster headache.
15009014	CID	Capsaicin	vascular dysfunctions
15009014	CID	Capsaicin	increases in dural and cortical blood flow

15120741|t|Recurrent excitation in the dentate gyrus of a murine model of temporal lobeepilepsy.Similar to rats, systemic pilocarpine injection causes status epilepticus (SE) andthe eventual development of spontaneous seizures and mossy fiber sprouting inC57BL/6 and CD1 mice, but the physiological correlates of these events have not beenidentified in mice. Population responses in granule cells of the dentate gyrus wereexamined in transverse slices of the ventral hippocampus from pilocarpine-treatedand untreated mice. In Mg(2+)-free bathing medium containing bicuculline, conditionsdesigned to increase excitability in the slices, electrical stimulation of the hilusresulted in a single population spike in granule cells from control mice andpilocarpine-treated mice that did not experience SE. In SE survivors, similarstimulation resulted in a population spike followed, at a variable latency, bynegative DC shifts and repetitive afterdischarges of 3-60 s duration, which wereblocked by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists. Focal glutamatephotostimulation of the granule cell layer at sites distant from the recordingpipette resulted in population responses of 1-30 s duration in slices from SEsurvivors but not other groups. These data support the hypothesis that SE-inducedmossy fiber sprouting and synaptic reorganization are relevant characteristics ofseizure development in these murine strains, resembling rat models of human temporallobe epilepsy.
15120741	CID	pilocarpine	status epilepticus
15120741	CID	pilocarpine	seizures

15275829|t|The alpha3 and beta4 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits are necessary fornicotine-induced seizures and hypolocomotion in mice.Binding of nicotine to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) elicits a seriesof dose-dependent behaviors that go from altered exploration, sedation, and tremors,to seizures and death. nAChRs are pentameric ion channels usually composed of alphaand beta subunits. A gene cluster comprises the alpha3, alpha5 and beta4 subunits,which coassemble to form functional receptors. We examined the role of the beta4subunits in nicotine-induced seizures and hypolocomotion in beta4 homozygous null(beta4 -/-) and alpha3 heterozygous (+/-) mice. beta4 -/- mice were less sensitiveto the effects of nicotine both at low doses, measured as decreased exploration inan open field, and at high doses, measured as sensitivity to nicotine-inducedseizures. Using in situ hybridization probes for the alpha3 and alpha5 subunits, weshowed that alpha5 mRNA levels are unchanged, whereas alpha3 mRNA levels areselectively decreased in the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb, and theinferior and the superior colliculus of beta4 -/- brains. alpha3 +/- mice werepartially resistant to nicotine-induced seizures when compared to wild-typelittermates. mRNA levels for the alpha5 and the beta4 subunits were unchanged inalpha3 +/- brains. Together, these results suggest that the beta4 and the alpha3subunits are mediators of nicotine-induced seizures and hypolocomotion.
15275829	CID	nicotine	seizures

15602202|t|Recurrent acute interstitial nephritis induced by azithromycin.A 14-year-old girl is reported with recurrent, azithromycin-induced, acuteinterstitial nephritis. The second episode was more severe than the first; andalthough both were treated with intensive corticosteroid therapy, renal functionremained impaired. Although most cases of antibiotic induced acute interstitialnephritis are benign and self-limited, some patients are at risk for permanent renalinjury.
15602202	CID	azithromycin	interstitial nephritis

16181582|t|Valproate-induced encephalopathy.Valproate-induced encephalopathy is a rare syndrome that may manifest in otherwisenormal epileptic individuals. It may even present in patients who have toleratedthis medicine well in the past. It is usually but not necessarily associated withhyperammonemia. The EEG shows characteristic triphasic waves in most patients withthis complication. A case of valproate-induced encephalopathy is presented. Theproblems in diagnosing this condition are subsequently discussed.
16181582	CID	Valproate	encephalopathy

16298782|t|Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester: a potential protector against gentamicinototoxicity.The nitric oxide (NO) inhibitor nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) may act asan otoprotectant against high-frequency hearing loss caused by gentamicin, butfurther studies are needed to confirm this.Aminoglycoside antibiotics are stillwidely used by virtue of their efficacy and low cost. Their ototoxicity is a serioushealth problem and, as their ototoxic mechanism involves the production of NO, weneed to assess the use of NO inhibitors for the prevention of aminoglycoside-inducedsensorineural hearing loss. In this experimental study we used 30 Sprague-Dawleyrats, 27 of which had gentamicin instilled into the middle ear. The otoprotectantL-NAME was administered topically to 12/27 animals. Its effect was determined interms of attenuation of hearing loss, measured by shifts in the auditory brainstemresponse threshold. L-NAME reduced gentamicin-induced hearing loss in thehigh-frequency range, but gave no protection in the middle or low frequencies.
16298782	CID	gentamicin	hearing loss

16428221|t|Cerebral vasculitis following oral methylphenidate intake in an adult: a casereport.Methylphenidate is structurally and functionally similar to amphetamine. Cerebralvasculitis associated with amphetamine abuse is well documented, and in rare casesischaemic stroke has been reported after methylphenidate intake in children. Wereport the case of a 63-year-old female who was treated with methylphenidate due tohyperactivity and suffered from multiple ischaemic strokes. We consider drug-inducedcerebral vasculitis as the most likely cause of recurrent ischaemic strokes in theabsence of any pathological findings during the diagnostic work-up. We conclude thatmethylphenidate mediated vasculitis should be considered in patients withneurological symptoms and a history of methylphenidate therapy. This potentialside-effect, though very rare, represents one more reason to be very restrictive inthe use of methylphenidate.
16428221	CID	methylphenidate	Cerebral vasculitis

16858720|t|Cerebral haemorrhage induced by warfarin - the influence of drug-druginteractions.PURPOSE: To evaluate the frequency, severity and preventability ofwarfarin-induced cerebral haemorrhages due to warfarin and warfarin-druginteractions in patients living in the county of Osterg tland, Sweden. METHODS: Allpatients with a diagnosed cerebral haemorrhage at three hospitals during the period2000-2002 were identified. Medical records were studied retrospectively to evaluatewhether warfarin and warfarin-drug interactions could have caused the cerebralhaemorrhage. The proportion of possibly avoidable cases due to drug interactions wasestimated. RESULTS: Among 593 patients with cerebral haemorrhage, 59 (10%) wereassessed as related to warfarin treatment. This imply an incidence of 1.7/100,000treatment years. Of the 59 cases, 26 (44%) had a fatal outcome, compared to 136(25%) among the non-warfarin patients (p < 0.01). A warfarin-drug interactioncould have contributed to the haemorrhage in 24 (41%) of the warfarin patients andin 7 of these (12%) the bleeding complication was considered being possible toavoid. CONCLUSIONS: Warfarin-induced cerebral haemorrhages are a major clinicalproblem with a high fatality rate. Almost half of the cases was related to awarfarin-drug interaction. A significant proportion of warfarin-related cerebralhaemorrhages might have been prevented if greater caution had been taken whenprescribing drugs known to interact with warfarin.
16858720	CID	warfarin	Cerebral haemorrhage

17466854|t|Side effects of postoperative administration of methylprednisolone and gentamicininto the posterior sub-Tenon's space.PURPOSE: To assess the incidence of postoperative emetic side effects after theadministration of methylprednisolone and gentamicin into the posteriorsub-Tenon's space at the end of routine cataract surgery. SETTING: St.Luke's Hospital, Gwardamangia, Malta. METHODS: A double-blind double-armedprospective study comprised 40 patients who had uneventful suturelessphacoemulsification under sub-Tenon's local infiltration of 3 mL of plainlignocaine. At the end of the procedure, Group A (n = 20) had 20 mg/0.5 mL ofmethylprednisolone and 10 mg/0.5 mL of gentamicin injected into the posteriorsub-Tenon's space and Group B (n = 20) had the same combination injected intothe anterior sub-Tenon's space. Postoperatively, all patients were assessed forsymptoms of nausea, vomiting, and headache. A chi-square test was used to assess thestatistical significance of results. RESULTS: Sixty percent in Group A developedpostoperative emetic symptoms, headache, or both; 1 patient in Group B developedsymptoms. CONCLUSIONS: The administration of methylprednisolone and gentamicin inthe posterior sub-Tenon's space was related to a high incidence of side effectsincluding nausea, vomiting, and headache. All adverse effects were self-limiting.
17466854	CID	gentamicin	headache
17466854	CID	methylprednisolone	nausea, vomiting
17466854	CID	methylprednisolone	headache
17466854	CID	gentamicin	nausea, vomiting

17562951|t|Cardiac Angiography in Renally Impaired Patients (CARE) study: a randomizeddouble-blind trial of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic kidneydisease.BACKGROUND: No direct comparisons exist of the renal tolerability of thelow-osmolality contrast medium iopamidol with that of the iso-osmolality contrastmedium iodixanol in high-risk patients. METHODS AND RESULTS: The present study is amulticenter, randomized, double-blind comparison of iopamidol and iodixanol inpatients with chronic kidney disease (estimated glomerular filtration rate, 20 to 59mL/min) who underwent cardiac angiography or percutaneous coronary interventions.Serum creatinine (SCr) levels and estimated glomerular filtration rate were assessedat baseline and 2 to 5 days after receiving medications. The primary outcome was apostdose SCr increase > or = 0.5 mg/dL (44.2 micromol/L) over baseline. Secondaryoutcomes were a postdose SCr increase > or = 25%, a postdose estimated glomerularfiltration rate decrease of > or = 25%, and the mean peak change in SCr. In 414patients, contrast volume, presence of diabetes mellitus, use of N-acetylcysteine,mean baseline SCr, and estimated glomerular filtration rate were comparable in the 2groups. SCr increases > or = 0.5 mg/dL occurred in 4.4% (9 of 204 patients) afteriopamidol and 6.7% (14 of 210 patients) after iodixanol (P=0.39), whereas rates ofSCr increases > or = 25% were 9.8% and 12.4%, respectively (P=0.44). In patientswith diabetes, SCr increases > or = 0.5 mg/dL were 5.1% (4 of 78 patients) withiopamidol and 13.0% (12 of 92 patients) with iodixanol (P=0.11), whereas SCrincreases > or = 25% were 10.3% and 15.2%, respectively (P=0.37). Mean post-SCrincreases were significantly less with iopamidol (all patients: 0.07 versus 0.12mg/dL, 6.2 versus 10.6 micromol/L, P=0.03; patients with diabetes: 0.07 versus 0.16mg/dL, 6.2 versus 14.1 micromol/L, P=0.01). CONCLUSIONS: The rate ofcontrast-induced nephropathy, defined by multiple end points, is not statisticallydifferent after the intraarterial administration of iopamidol or iodixanol tohigh-risk patients, with or without diabetes mellitus. Any true difference betweenthe agents is small and not likely to be clinically significant.
17562951	CID	iodixanol	nephropathy
17562951	CID	contrast medium	nephropathy
17562951	CID	iopamidol	nephropathy

17600377|t|A novel compound, maltolyl p-coumarate, attenuates cognitive deficits and showsneuroprotective effects in vitro and in vivo dementia models.To develop a novel and effective drug that could enhance cognitive function andneuroprotection, we newly synthesized maltolyl p-coumarate by the esterification ofmaltol and p-coumaric acid. In the present study, we investigated whether maltolylp-coumarate could improve cognitive decline in scopolamine-injected rats and inamyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. Maltolyl p-coumarate was found to attenuatecognitive deficits in both rat models using passive avoidance test and to reduceapoptotic cell death observed in the hippocampus of the amyloid betapeptide(1-42)-infused rats. We also examined the neuroprotective effects of maltolylp-coumarate in vitro using SH-SY5Y cells. Cells were pretreated with maltolylp-coumarate, before exposed to amyloid beta peptide(1-42), glutamate or H2O2. Wefound that maltolyl p-coumarate significantly decreased apoptotic cell death andreduced reactive oxygen species, cytochrome c release, and caspase 3 activation.Taking these in vitro and in vivo results together, our study suggests that maltolylp-coumarate is a potentially effective candidate against Alzheimer's diseasethat is characterized by wide spread neuronal death and progressive decline ofcognitive function.
17600377	CID	scopolamine	cognitive deficits

17639754|t|Interaction between warfarin and levofloxacin: case series.Warfarin is the most widely used oral anticoagulant and is indicated for manyclinical conditions. Levofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone, is one of the most commonlyprescribed antibiotics in clinical practice and is effective against Gram-positive,Gram-negative, and atypical bacteria. While small prospective studies have notrevealed any significant drug-drug interaction between warfarin and levofloxacin,several case reports have indicated that levofloxacin may significantly potentiatethe anticoagulation effect of warfarin. We report 3 cases of serious bleedingcomplications that appear to be the result of the interaction between warfarin andlevofloxacin. Physicians should be aware of this potential interaction and usecaution when prescribing levofloxacin to patients taking warfarin.
17639754	CID	warfarin	bleeding
17639754	CID	levofloxacin	bleeding

17854040|t|Mutations associated with lamivudine-resistance in therapy-na ve hepatitis B virus(HBV) infected patients with and without HIV co-infection: implications forantiretroviral therapy in HBV and HIV co-infected South African patients.This was an exploratory study to investigate lamivudine-resistant hepatitis Bvirus (HBV) strains in selected lamivudine-na ve HBV carriers with and without humanimmunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infection in South African patients. Thirty-fivelamivudine-na ve HBV infected patients with or without HIV co-infection werestudied: 15 chronic HBV mono-infected patients and 20 HBV-HIV co-infected patients.The latter group was further sub-divided into 13 occult HBV (HBsAg-negative) and 7overt HBV (HBsAg- positive) patients. HBsAg, anti-HBs, anti-HBc, and anti-HIV 1/2were determined as part of routine diagnosis using Axsym assays (AbbottLaboratories, North Chicago, IL). Serum samples were PCR amplified with HBV reversetranscriptase (RT) primers, followed by direct sequencing across thetyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate (YMDD) motif of the major catalytic regionin the C domain of the HBV RT enzyme. HBV viral load was performed with Amplicor HBVMonitor test v2.0 (Roche Diagnostics, Penzberg, Germany). HBV lamivudine-resistantstrains were detected in 3 of 15 mono-infected chronic hepatitis B patients and 10of 20 HBV-HIV co-infected patients. To the best of our knowledge, this constitutesthe first report of HBV lamivudine-resistant strains in therapy-na ve HBV-HIVco-infected patients. The HBV viral loads for mono-infected and co-infected patientsranged from 3.32 x 10(2) to 3.82 x 10(7) and <200 to 4.40 x 10(3) copies/ml,respectively. It remains to be seen whether such pre-existing antiviral mutationscould result in widespread emergence of HBV resistant strains whenlamivudine-containing highly active antiretroviral (ARV) treatment (HAART) regimensbecome widely applied in South Africa, as this is likely to have potentialimplications in the management of HBV-HIV co-infected patients.
17854040	CID	HBsAg	hepatitis B virus (HBV) infected

18221780|t|Sex differences in NMDA antagonist enhancement of morphine antihyperalgesia in acapsaicin model of persistent pain: comparisons to two models of acute pain.In acute pain models, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists enhance theantinociceptive effects of morphine to a greater extent in males than females. Thepurpose of this investigation was to extend these findings to a persistent painmodel which could be distinguished from acute pain models on the basis of thenociceptive fibers activated, neurochemical substrates, and duration of thenociceptive stimulus. To this end, persistent hyperalgesia was induced byadministration of capsaicin in the tail of gonadally intact F344 rats, followingwhich the tail was immersed in a mildly noxious thermal stimulus, andtail-withdrawal latencies measured. For comparison, tests were conducted in twoacute pain models, the hotplate and warm water tail-withdrawal procedures. In males,the non-competitive NMDA antagonist dextromethorphan enhanced the antihyperalgesiceffect of low to moderate doses of morphine in a dose-and time-dependent manner.Across the doses and pretreatment times examined, enhancement was not observed infemales. Enhancement of morphine antinociception by dextromethorphan was seen inboth males and females in the acute pain models, with the magnitude of this effectbeing greater in males. These findings demonstrate a sexually-dimorphic interactionbetween NMDA antagonists and morphine in a persistent pain model that can bedistinguished from those observed in acute pain models.
18221780	CID	capsaicin	hyperalgesia

18261172|t|Development of proteinuria after switch to sirolimus-based immunosuppression inlong-term cardiac transplant patients.Calcineurin-inhibitor therapy can lead to renal dysfunction in hearttransplantation patients. The novel immunosuppressive (IS) drug sirolmus (Srl) lacksnephrotoxic effects; however, proteinuria associated with Srl has been reportedfollowing renal transplantation. In cardiac transplantation, the incidence ofproteinuria associated with Srl is unknown. In this study, long-term cardiactransplant patients were switched from cyclosporine to Srl-based IS. Concomitant ISconsisted of mycophenolate mofetil +/- steroids. Proteinuria increased significantlyfrom a median of 0.13 g/day (range 0-5.7) preswitch to 0.23 g/day (0-9.88) at 24months postswitch (p = 0.0024). Before the switch, 11.5% of patients had high-gradeproteinuria (>1.0 g/day); this increased to 22.9% postswitch (p = 0.006). ACEinhibitor and angiotensin-releasing blocker (ARB) therapy reduced proteinuriadevelopment. Patients without proteinuria had increased renal function (median 42.5vs. 64.1, p = 0.25), whereas patients who developed high-grade proteinuria showeddecreased renal function at the end of follow-up (median 39.6 vs. 29.2, p = 0.125).Thus, proteinuria may develop in cardiac transplant patients after switch to Srl,which may have an adverse effect on renal function in these patients. Srl should beused with ACEi/ARB therapy and patients monitored for proteinuria and increasedrenal dysfunction.
18261172	CID	sirolimus	proteinuria

18329269|t|Synthesis of N-pyrimidinyl-2-phenoxyacetamides as adenosine A2A receptorantagonists.A series of N-pyrimidinyl-2-phenoxyacetamide adenosine A(2A) antagonists isdescribed. SAR studies led to compound 14 with excellent potency (K(i) = 0.4 nM),selectivity (A(1)/A(2A) > 100), and efficacy (MED 10 mg/kg p.o.) in the rathaloperidol-induced catalepsy model for Parkinson's disease.
18329269	CID	haloperidol	catalepsy

18410508|t|Methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity and microglial activation are not mediatedby fractalkine receptor signaling.Methamphetamine (METH) damages dopamine (DA) nerve endings by a process that hasbeen linked to microglial activation but the signaling pathways that mediate thisresponse have not yet been delineated. Cardona et al. [Nat. Neurosci. 9 (2006), 917]recently identified the microglial-specific fractalkine receptor (CX3CR1) as animportant mediator of MPTP-induced neurodegeneration of DA neurons. Because the CNSdamage caused by METH and MPTP is highly selective for the DA neuronal system inmouse models of neurotoxicity, we hypothesized that the CX3CR1 plays a role inMETH-induced neurotoxicity and microglial activation. Mice in which the CX3CR1 genehas been deleted and replaced with a cDNA encoding enhanced green fluorescentprotein (eGFP) were treated with METH and examined for striatal neurotoxicity. METHdepleted DA, caused microglial activation, and increased body temperature in CX3CR1knockout mice to the same extent and over the same time course seen in wild-typecontrols. The effects of METH in CX3CR1 knockout mice were not gender-dependent anddid not extend beyond the striatum. Striatal microglia expressing eGFPconstitutively show morphological changes after METH that are characteristic ofactivation. This response was restricted to the striatum and contrasted sharply withunresponsive eGFP-microglia in surrounding brain areas that are not damaged by METH.We conclude from these studies that CX3CR1 signaling does not modulate METHneurotoxicity or microglial activation. Furthermore, it appears thatstriatal-resident microglia respond to METH with an activation cascade and thenreturn to a surveying state without undergoing apoptosis or migration.
18410508	CID	Methamphetamine	neurodegeneration
18410508	CID	MPTP	neurodegeneration

18503483|t|Recovery of tacrolimus-associated brachial neuritis after conversion to everolimusin a pediatric renal transplant recipient--case report and review of the literature.TAC has been shown to be a potent immunosuppressive agent for solid organtransplantation in pediatrics. Neurotoxicity is a potentially serious toxic effect.It is characterized by encephalopathy, headaches, seizures, or neurologicaldeficits. Here, we describe an eight-and-a-half-yr-old male renal transplantrecipient with right BN. MRI demonstrated hyperintense T2 signals in the cervicalcord and right brachial plexus roots indicative of both myelitis and right brachialplexitis. Symptoms persisted for three months despite TAC dose reduction,administration of IVIG and four doses of methylprednisolone pulse therapy.Improvement and eventually full recovery only occurred after TAC was completelydiscontinued and successfully replaced by everolimus.
18503483	CID	tacrolimus	brachial neuritis

18560792|t|Valvular heart disease in patients with Parkinson's disease treated withpergolide. Course following treatment modifications.Valvular heart abnormalities have been reported in patients with Parkinson'sdisease (PD) treated with pergolide. However, the incidence and severity of theseabnormalities vary from study to study and their course after drug withdrawal hasnot been systematically assessed. OBJECTIVES: To estimate the frequency and severityof valvular heart abnormality and its possible reversibility after drug withdrawalin a case-control study. METHODS: All PD patients in the Amiens area treated withpergolide were invited to attend a cardiologic assessment including transthoracicechocardiography. Thirty PD patients participated in the study. A secondechocardiography was performed (median interval: 13 months) after pergolidewithdrawal (n=10 patients). Controls were age- and sex-matched non-PD patientsreferred to the cardiology department. RESULTS: Compared to controls, aorticregurgitation (OR: 3.1; 95% IC: 1.1-8.8) and mitral regurgitation (OR: 10.7; 95% IC:2.1-53) were more frequent in PD patients (tricuspid: NS). The number of affectedvalves (n=2.4+/-0.7) and the sum of regurgitation grades (n=2.8+/-1.09) were higher(p=0.008 and p=0.006, respectively) in the pergolide group. Severity ofregurgitation was not correlated with pergolide cumulative dose. A restrictivepattern of valvular regurgitation, suggestive of the role of pergolide, was observedin 12/30 (40%) patients including two with heart failure. Pergolide was discontinuedin 10 patients with valvular heart disease, resulting in a lower regurgitation grade(p=0.01) at the second transthoracic echocardiography and the two patients withheart failure returned to nearly normal clinical examination. This study supportsthe high frequency of restrictive valve regurgitation in PD patients treated withpergolide and reveals that a significant improvement is usual when the treatment isconverted to non-ergot dopamine agonists.
18560792	CID	pergolide	aortic regurgitation
18560792	CID	pergolide	mitral regurgitation

18726058|t|Adverse effects of topical papaverine on auditory nerve function.BACKGROUND: Papaverine hydrochloride is a direct-acting vasodilator used to managevasospasm during various neurosurgical operations. Transient cranial nervedysfunction has been described in a few cases with topical papaverine. This studysupports previous reports and provides neurophysiological evidence of an adverseeffect on the auditory nerve. METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of 70consecutive microvascular decompression operations and studied those patients whoreceived topical papaverine for vasospasm. Topical papaverine was used as a directtherapeutic action to manage vasospasm in a total of 11 patients. The timing ofpapaverine application and ongoing operative events was reviewed relative to changesin neurophysiological recordings. Brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) wereroutinely used to monitor cochlear nerve function during these operations. FINDINGS:A temporal relationship was found between topical papaverine and BAEP changesleading to complete waveform loss. The average temporal delay between papaverine andthe onset of an adverse BAEP change was 5 min. In 10 of 11 patients, BAEP wavesII/III-V completely disappeared within 2 to 25 min after papaverine. Eight of these10 patients had complete loss of BAEP waveforms within 10 min. One patient showed norecovery of later waves and a delayed profound sensorineural hearing loss. Theaverage recovery time of BAEP waveforms to pre-papaverine baseline values was 39min. CONCLUSIONS: Topical papaverine for the treatment of vasospasm was associatedwith the onset of a transient disturbance in neurophysiological function of theascending auditory brainstem pathway. The complete disappearance of BAEP waveformswith a consistent temporal delay suggests a possible adverse effect on the proximaleighth nerve. Recommendations to avoid potential cranial nerve deficits frompapaverine are provided.
18726058	CID	papaverine	adverse effect on the proximal eighth nerve
18726058	CID	papaverine	sensorineural hearing loss

18754075|t|Massive proteinuria and acute renal failure after oral bisphosphonate(alendronate) administration in a patient with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis.A 61-year-old Japanese man with nephrotic syndrome due to focal segmentalglomerulosclerosis was initially responding well to steroid therapy. The amount ofdaily urinary protein decreased from 15.6 to 2.8 g. Within 14 days of the oralbisphosphonate (alendronate sodium) administration, the amount of daily urinaryprotein increased rapidly up to 12.8 g with acute renal failure. After discontinuingthe oral alendronate, the patient underwent six cycles of hemodialysis and fourcycles of LDL apheresis. Urinary volume and serum creatinine levels recovered to thenormal range, with urinary protein disappearing completely within 40 days. Thisreport demonstrates that not only intravenous, but also oral bisphosphonates canaggravate proteinuria and acute renal failure.
18754075	CID	alendronate	acute renal failure
18754075	CID	alendronate	proteinuria

18768591|t|Serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 in doxorubicin-induced nephroticsyndrome.Doxorubicin-induced nephropathy leads to epithelial sodium channel(ENaC)-dependent volume retention and renal fibrosis. The aldosterone-sensitiveserum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase SGK1 has been shown to participate in thestimulation of ENaC and to mediate renal fibrosis following mineralocorticoid andsalt excess. The present study was performed to elucidate the role of SGK1 in thevolume retention and fibrosis during nephrotic syndrome. To this end, doxorubicin(15 mug/g body wt) was injected intravenously into gene-targeted mice lacking SGK1(sgk1(-/-)) and their wild-type littermates (sgk1(+/+)). Doxorubicin treatmentresulted in heavy proteinuria (>100 mg protein/mg crea) in 15/44 of sgk1(+/+) and15/44 of sgk1(-/-) mice leading to severe nephrotic syndrome with ascites,lipidemia, and hypoalbuminemia in both genotypes. Plasma aldosterone levelsincreased in nephrotic mice of both genotypes and was followed by increased SGK1protein expression in sgk1(+/+) mice. Urinary sodium excretion reached signficantlylower values in sgk1(+/+) mice (15 +/- 5 mumol/mg crea) than in sgk1(-/-) mice (35+/- 5 mumol/mg crea) and was associated with a significantly higher body weight gainin sgk1(+/+) compared with sgk1(-/-) mice (+6.6 +/- 0.7 vs. +4.1 +/- 0.8 g). Duringthe course of nephrotic syndrome, serum urea concentrations increased significantlyfaster in sgk1(-/-) mice than in sgk1(+/+) mice leading to uremia and a reducedmedian survival in sgk1(-/-) mice (29 vs. 40 days in sgk1(+/+) mice). In conclusion,gene-targeted mice lacking SGK1 showed blunted volume retention, yet were notprotected against renal fibrosis during experimental nephrotic syndrome.
18768591	CID	doxorubicin	ascites
18768591	CID	doxorubicin	lipidemia
18768591	CID	doxorubicin	proteinuria
18768591	CID	doxorubicin	nephrotic syndrome
18768591	CID	doxorubicin	hypoalbuminemia

19299179|t|Severe and long lasting cholestasis after high-dose co-trimoxazole treatment forPneumocystis pneumonia in HIV-infected patients--a report of two cases.Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), a common opportunistic infection in HIV-infectedindividuals, is generally treated with high doses of co-trimoxazole. However,treatment is often limited by adverse effects. Here, we report two cases of severelyimmunocompromised HIV-infected patients who developed severe intrahepaticcholestasis, and in one patient lesions mimicking liver abscess formation onradiologic exams, during co-trimoxazole treatment for PCP. Whereas patient 1 showedlesions of up to 1 cm readily detectable on magnetic resonance imaging underprolonged co-trimoxazole treatment, therapy of patient 2 was switched early.
19299179	CID	co-trimoxazole	intrahepatic cholestasis

19356053|t|Clinically significant proteinuria following the administration of sirolimus torenal transplant recipients.BACKGROUND: Sirolimus is the latest immunosuppressive agent used to preventrejection, and may have less nephrotoxicity than calcineurin inhibitor (CNI)-basedregimens. To date there has been little documentation of clinically significantproteinuria linked with the use of sirolimus. We have encountered several patientswho developed substantial proteinuria associated with sirolimus use. In eachpatient, the close temporal association between the commencement of sirolimustherapy and proteinuria implicated sirolimus as the most likely etiology of theproteinuria. METHODS: We analyzed the clinical and laboratory information availablefor all 119 patients transplanted at the Washington Hospital Center between1999-2003 for whom sirolimus was a component of their immunosuppressant regimen. Inthese patients, the magnitude of proteinuria was assessed on morning urine samplesby turbidometric measurement or random urine protein:creatinine ratios, an estimateof grams of proteinuria/day. Laboratory results were compared between prior, duringand following sirolimus use. RESULTS: Twenty-eight patients (24%) developedincreased proteinuria from baseline during their post-transplantation course. In 21patients an alternative cause of proteinuria was either obvious or insufficient datawas available to be conclusive. In 7 of the 28 patients there was a strikingtemporal association between the initiation of sirolimus and the development ofnephrotic-range proteinuria. Proteinuria correlated most strongly with sirolimustherapy when compared to other demographic and clinical variables. In most patients,discontinuation of sirolimus resulted in a decrease, but not resolution, ofproteinuria. CONCLUSIONS: Sirolimus induces or aggravates pre-existing proteinuriain an unpredictable subset of renal allograft recipients. Proteinuria may improve,but does not resolve, when sirolimus is withdrawn.
19356053	CID	sirolimus	proteinuria

19729346|t|Comparative cognitive and subjective side effects of immediate-release oxycodonein healthy middle-aged and older adults.This study measured the objective and subjective neurocognitive effects of asingle 10-mg dose of immediate-release oxycodone in healthy, older (> 65 years),and middle-aged (35 to 55 years) adults who were not suffering from chronic orsignificant daily pain. Seventy-one participants completed 2 separate study days andwere blind to medication condition (placebo, 10-mg oxycodone). Plasma oxycodoneconcentration peaked between 60 and 90 minutes postdose (P < .01) and pupil size,an indication of physiological effects of the medication, peaked at approximately 90to 120 minutes postdose (P < .01). Significant declines in simple and sustainedattention, working memory, and verbal memory were observed at 1 hour postdosecompared to baseline for both age groups with a trend toward return to baseline by 5hours postdose. For almost all cognitive measures, there were no medication byage-interaction effects, which indicates that the 2 age groups exhibited similarresponses to the medication challenge. This study suggests that for healthy olderadults who are not suffering from chronic pain, neurocognitive and pharmacodynamicchanges in response to a 10-mg dose of immediate-release oxycodone are similar tothose observed for middle-aged adults. PERSPECTIVE: Study findings indicate that themetabolism, neurocognitive effects, and physical side effects of oral oxycodone aresimilar for healthy middle-aged and older adults. Therefore, clinicians should notavoid prescribing oral opioids to older adults based on the belief that older adultsare at higher risk for side effects than younger adults.
19729346	CID	oxycodone	declines in working memory, and verbal memory
19729346	CID	oxycodone	declines in simple and sustained attention

20080983|t|Normalizing effects of modafinil on sleep in chronic cocaine users.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the present study was to determine the effect ofmorning-dosed modafinil on sleep and daytime sleepiness in chronic cocaine users.METHOD: Twenty cocaine-dependent participants were randomly assigned to receivemodafinil, 400 mg (N=10), or placebo (N=10) every morning at 7:30 a.m. for 16 daysin an inpatient, double-blind randomized trial. Participants underwentpolysomnographic sleep recordings on days 1 to 3, 7 to 9, and 14 to 16 (first,second, and third weeks of abstinence). The Multiple Sleep Latency Test wasperformed at 11:30 a.m., 2:00 p.m., and 4:30 p.m. on days 2, 8, and 15. Forcomparison of sleep architecture variables, 12 healthy comparison participantsunderwent a single night of experimental polysomnography that followed 1 night ofaccommodation polysomnography. RESULTS: Progressive abstinence from cocaine wasassociated with worsening of all measured polysomnographic sleep outcomes. Comparedwith placebo, modafinil decreased nighttime sleep latency and increased slow-wavesleep time in cocaine-dependent participants. The effect of modafinil interactedwith the abstinence week and was associated with longer total sleep time and shorterREM sleep latency in the third week of abstinence. Comparison of slow-wave sleeptime, total sleep time, and sleep latency in cocaine-dependent and healthyparticipants revealed a normalizing effect of modafinil in cocaine-dependentparticipants. Modafinil was associated with increased daytime sleep latency, asmeasured by the Multiple Sleep Latency Test, and a nearly significant decrease insubjective daytime sleepiness. CONCLUSIONS: Morning-dosed modafinil promotesnocturnal sleep, normalizes sleep architecture, and decreases daytime sleepiness inabstinent cocaine users. These effects may be relevant in the treatment of cocainedependence.
20080983	CID	cocaine	daytime sleepiness

20520283|t|Efficacy and safety of asenapine in a placebo- and haloperidol-controlled trial inpatients with acute exacerbation of schizophrenia.Asenapine is approved by the Food and Drugs Administration in adults for acutetreatment of schizophrenia or of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar Idisorder with or without psychotic features. In a double-blind 6-week trial, 458patients with acute schizophrenia were randomly assigned to fixed-dose treatmentwith asenapine at 5 mg twice daily (BID), asenapine at 10 mg BID, placebo, orhaloperidol at 4 mg BID (to verify assay sensitivity). With last observationscarried forward (LOCF), mean Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total scorereductions from baseline to endpoint were significantly greater with asenapine at 5mg BID (-16.2) and haloperidol (-15.4) than placebo (-10.7; both P < 0.05); usingmixed model for repeated measures (MMRM), changes at day 42 were significantlygreater with asenapine at 5 and 10 mg BID (-21.3 and -19.4, respectively) andhaloperidol (-20.0) than placebo (-14.6; all P < 0.05). On the Positive andNegative Syndrome Scale positive subscale, all treatments were superior to placebowith LOCF and MMRM; asenapine at 5 mg BID was superior to placebo on the negativesubscale with MMRM and on the general psychopathology subscale with LOCF and MMRM.Treatment-related adverse events (AEs) occurred in 44% and 52%, 57%, and 41% of theasenapine at 5 and 10 mg BID, haloperidol, and placebo groups, respectively.Extrapyramidal symptoms reported as AEs occurred in 15% and 18%, 34%, and 10% of theasenapine at 5 and 10 mg BID, haloperidol, and placebo groups, respectively. Acrossall groups, no more than 5% of patients had clinically significant weight change.Post hoc analyses indicated that efficacy was similar with asenapine andhaloperidol; greater contrasts were seen in AEs, especially extrapyramidal symptoms.
20520283	CID	haloperidol	Extrapyramidal symptoms
20520283	CID	asenapine	Extrapyramidal symptoms

20588063|t|Permeability, ultrastructural changes, and distribution of novel proteins in theglomerular barrier in early puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis.BACKGROUND/AIMS: It is still unclear what happens in the glomerulus whenproteinuria starts. Using puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) rats, we studiedearly ultrastructural and permeability changes in relation to the expression of thepodocyte-associated molecules nephrin, a-actinin, dendrin, and plekhh2, the last twoof which were only recently discovered in podocytes. METHODS: Using immunestainings, semiquantitative measurement was performed under the electron microscope.Permeability was assessed using isolated kidney perfusion with tracers. Possibleeffects of ACE inhibition were tested. RESULTS: By day 2, some patchy foot processeffacement, but no proteinuria, appeared. The amount of nephrin was reduced in bothdiseased and normal areas. The other proteins showed few changes, which were limitedto diseased areas. By day 4, foot process effacement was complete and proteinuriaappeared in parallel with signs of size barrier damage. Nephrin decreased further,while dendrin and plekhh2 also decreased but a-actinin remained unchanged. ACEinhibition had no significant protective effect. CONCLUSIONS: PAN glomeruli alreadyshowed significant pathology by day 4, despite relatively mild proteinuria. This waspreceded by altered nephrin expression, supporting its pivotal role in podocytemorphology. The novel proteins dendrin and plekhh2 were both reduced, suggestingroles in PAN, whereas a-actinin was unchanged.
20588063	CID	puromycin aminonucleoside	proteinuria
20588063	CID	puromycin aminonucleoside	nephrosis

19820426|t|Twin preterm neonates with cardiac toxicity related to lopinavir/ritonavirtherapy.We report twin neonates who were born prematurely at 32 weeks of gestation to amother with human immunodeficiency virus infection. One of the twins developedcomplete heart block and dilated cardiomyopathy related to lopinavir/ritonavirtherapy, a boosted protease-inhibitor agent, while the other twin developed mildbradycardia. We recommend caution in the use of lopinavir/ritonavir in the immediateneonatal period.
19820426	CID	lopinavir/ritonavir	dilated cardiomyopathy
19820426	CID	lopinavir/ritonavir	heart block
19820426	CID	lopinavir/ritonavir	bradycardia

1616457|t|Learning of rats under amnesia caused by pentobarbital.Dissociated learning of rats in the normal state and the state of amnesia producedby pentobarbital (15 mg/kg, ip) was carried out. Rats were trained to approach ashelf where they received food reinforcement. In Group 1 the rats were trained underthe influence of pentobarbital to run to the same shelf as in the normal state. InGroup 2 the rats were trained to approach different shelves in different drugstates. It was shown that memory dissociation occurred in both groups. Differencesin the parameters of training under the influence of pentobarbital between Groups 1and 2 were revealed. These findings show that the brain-dissociated state induced bypentobarbital is formed with the participation of the mechanisms of informationperception.
1616457	CID	pentobarbital	amnesia

567256|t|Angiosarcoma of the liver associated with diethylstilbestrol.Angiosarcoma of the liver occurred in a 76-year-old man who had been treated for awell-differentiated adenocarcinoma of the liver with diethylstilbestrol for 13years. Angiosarcoma was also present within pulmonary and renal arteries. Thepossibility that the intraarterial lesions might represent independent primarytumors is considered.
567256	CID	diethylstilbestrol	Angiosarcoma of the liver
567256	CID	diethylstilbestrol	Angiosarcoma

17439425|t|Role of xanthine oxidase in dexamethasone-induced hypertension in rats.1. Glucocorticoid-induced hypertension (GC-HT) in the rat is associated withnitric oxide-redox imbalance. 2. We studied the role of xanthine oxidase (XO), whichis implicated in the production of reactive oxygen species, in dexamethasone-inducedhypertension (dex-HT). 3. Thirty male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided randomly intofour treatment groups: saline, dexamethasone (dex), allopurinol plus saline, andallopurinol plus dex. 4. Systolic blood pressures (SBP) and bodyweights wererecorded each alternate day. Thymus weight was used as a marker of glucocorticoidactivity, and serum urate to assess XO inhibition. 5. Dex increased SBP (110 +/-2-126 +/- 3 mmHg; P < 0.001) and decreased thymus (P < 0.001) and bodyweights(P" < 0.01). Allopurinol decreased serum urate from 76 +/- 5 to 30 +/- 3micromol/L (P < 0.001) in saline and from 84 +/- 13 to 28 +/- 2 micromol/L index-treated (P < 0.01) groups. 6. Allopurinol did not prevent dex-HT. This,together with our previous findings that allopurinol failed to preventadrenocorticotrophic hormone induced hypertension, suggests that XO activity is nota major determinant of GC-HT in the rat.
17439425	CID	dexamethasone	decreased thymus (P < 0.001) and bodyweights
17439425	CID	dexamethasone	hypertension

9351491|t|Extrapyramidal side effects with risperidone and haloperidol at comparable D2receptor occupancy levels.Risperidone is an antipsychotic drug with high affinity at dopamine D2 andserotonin 5-HT2 receptors. Previous clinical studies have proposed thatrisperidone's pharmacologic profile may produce improved efficacy for negativepsychotic symptoms and decreased propensity for extrapyramidal side effects;features shared by so-called 'atypical' neuroleptics. To determine ifroutine risperidone treatment is associated with a unique degree of D2 receptoroccupancy and pattern of clinical effects, we used [123I]IBZM SPECT to determine D2occupancy in subjects treated with routine clinical doses of risperidone (n = 12) orhaloperidol (n = 7). Both risperidone and haloperidol produced D2 occupancy levelsbetween approximately 60 and 90% at standard clinical doses. There was nosignificant difference between occupancy levels obtained with haloperidol orrisperidone. Drug-induced parkinsonism was observed in subjects treated withrisperidone (42%) and haloperidol (29%) and was observed at occupancy levels above60%. Based on these observations, it is concluded that 5-HT2 blockade obtained withrisperidone at D2 occupancy rates of 60% and above does not appear to protectagainst the risk for extrapyramidal side effects.
9351491	CID	risperidone	Drug-induced parkinsonism
9351491	CID	haloperidol	Drug-induced parkinsonism

18752389|t|Simvastatin-ezetimibe-induced hepatic failure necessitating liver transplantation.Abstract Serum aminotransferase elevations are a commonly known adverse effect of3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy. However,hepatotoxic events have not been widely published with ezetimibe or the combinationagent simvastatin-ezetimibe. We describe a 70-year-old Hispanic woman who developedfulminant hepatic failure necessitating liver transplantation 10 weeks afterconversion from simvastatin 40 mg/day to simvastatin 10 mg-ezetimibe 40 mg/day. Thepatient's lipid panel had been maintained with simvastatin for 18 months beforethe conversion without evidence of hepatotoxicity. A routine laboratory work-up 10weeks after conversion revealed elevated serum aminotransferase levels.Simvastatinezetimibe and escitalopram (which she was taking for depression) werediscontinued, and other potential causes of hepatotoxicity were excluded. A repeatwork-up revealed further elevations in aminotransferase levels, and liver biopsyrevealed evidence of moderate-to-severe drug toxicity. She underwent livertransplantation with an uneventful postoperative course. Her aminotransferase levelsreturned to normal by postoperative day 23, and her 2-year follow-up showed noadverse events. Ezetimibe undergoes extensive glucuronidation by uridine diphosphateglucoronosyltransferases (UGT) in the intestine and liver and may have inhibited theglucuronidation of simvastatin hydroxy acid, resulting in increased simvastatinexposure and subsequent hepatotoxicity. To our knowledge, this is the first casereport of simvastatin-ezetimibe-induced liver failure that resulted in livertransplantation. We postulate that the mechanism of the simvastatinezetimibe-inducedhepatotoxicity is the increased simvastatin exposure by ezetimibe inhibition of UGTenzymes. Clinicians should be aware of potential hepatotoxicity withsimvastatin-ezetimibe especially in elderly patients and should carefully monitorserum aminotransferase levels when starting therapy and titrating the dosage.
18752389	CID	Simvastatin-ezetimibe	hepatotoxic
18752389	CID	Simvastatin-ezetimibe	fulminant hepatic failure

20098969|t|Oral manifestations of "meth mouth": a case report.AIM: The aim of the documentation of this clinical case is to make cliniciansaware of "meth mouth" and the medical risks associated with this seriouscondition. BACKGROUND: Methamphetamine is a very addictive, powerful stimulant thatincreases wakefulness and physical activity and can produce other effects such ascardiac dysrhythmias, hypertension, hallucinations, and violent behavior. Dentalpatients abusing methamphetamine can present with poor oral hygiene, xerostomia,rampant caries ("meth mouth"), and excessive tooth wear. Oralrehabilitation of patients using methamphetamine can be challenging. CASEDESCRIPTION: A 30-year-old Caucasian woman presented with dental pain, bad breath,and self-reported poor esthetics. A comprehensive examination including her medicalhistory, panoramic radiograph, and intraoral examination revealed 19 cariouslesions, which is not very common for a healthy adult. She reported her use ofmethamphetamine for five years and had not experienced any major carious episodesbefore she started using the drug. SUMMARY: The patient's medical and dentalhistories along with radiographic and clinical findings lead to a diagnosis of"meth mouth." Although three different dental treatment modalities (eitherconventional or implant-supported) have been offered to the patient since August2007, the patient has yet to initiate any treatment. CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Thisclinical case showing oral manifestations of meth mouth was presented to help dentalpractitioners recognize and manage patients who may be abusing methamphetamines.Dental practitioners also may be skeptical about the reliability of appointmentkeeping by these patients, as they frequently miss their appointments withoutreasonable justification.
20098969	CID	Methamphetamine	caries

9653867|t|Thyroxine abuse: an unusual case of thyrotoxicosis in pregnancy.Eating disorders and the associated behavioural problems and drug abuse areuncommon in pregnancy. When they do occur they are often unrecognized because ofdenial but when significant may pose a risk to both the mother and her fetus. Thiscase illustrates a number of problems that may be encountered in women with eatingdisorders in pregnancy, including prolonged and recurrent metabolic disturbances anddiuretic abuse. In particular it illustrates the derangements of thyroid functionseen in pregnant women with eating disorders and reminds us that when a cause forthyrotoxicosis remains obscure, thyroxine abuse should be considered and explored.
9653867	CID	Thyroxine	thyrotoxicosis

17608141|t|Attenuation of methamphetamine-induced nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity inmice by lipopolysaccharide pretreatment.Immunological activation has been proposed to play a role inmethamphetamine-induced dopaminergic terminal damage. In this study, we examined theroles of lipopolysaccharide, a pro-inflammatory and inflammatory factor, treatmentin modulating the methamphetamine-induced nigrostriatal dopamine neurotoxicity.Lipopolysaccharide pretreatment did not affect the basal body temperature ormethamphetamine-elicited hyperthermia three days later. Such systemiclipopolysaccharide treatment mitigated methamphetamine-induced striatal dopamine and3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid depletions in a dose-dependent manner. As the mostpotent dose (1 mg/kg) of lipopolysaccharide was administered two weeks, one daybefore or after the methamphetamine dosing regimen, methamphetamine-induced striataldopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid depletions remained unaltered. Moreover,systemic lipopolysaccharide pretreatment (1 mg/kg) attenuated local methamphetamineinfusion-produced dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid depletions in thestriatum, indicating that the protective effect of lipopolysaccharide is less likelydue to interrupted peripheral distribution or metabolism of methamphetamine. Weconcluded a critical time window for systemic lipopolysaccharide pretreatment inexerting effective protection against methamphetamine-induced nigrostriatal dopamineneurotoxicity.
17608141	CID	methamphetamine	hyperthermia

2559236|t|Effect of converting enzyme inhibition on the course of adriamycin-inducednephropathy.The effect of the converting enzyme inhibitor (CEI) enalapril was assessed inMunich-Wistar rats with established adriamycin nephrosis. Rats were given a singledose of adriamycin and one month later divided into four groups matched foralbuminuria, blood pressure, and plasma albumin concentration. Groups 1 and 3remained untreated while groups 2 and 4 received enalapril. Groups 1 and 2 underwentmicropuncture studies after 10 days. These short-term studies showed that enalaprilreduced arterial blood pressure (101 +/- 2 vs. 124 +/- 3 mm Hg, group 2 vs. 1, Pless than 0.05) and glomerular capillary pressure (54 +/- 1 vs. 61 +/- 2 mm Hg, Pless than 0.05) without reducing albuminuria (617 +/- 50 vs. 570 +/- 47 mg/day) orGFR (1.03 +/- 0.04 vs. 1.04 +/- 0.11 ml/min). Groups 3 and 4 were studied at fourand at six months to assess the effect of enalapril on progression of renal injuryin adriamycin nephrosis. Chronic enalapril treatment reduced blood pressure withoutreducing albuminuria in group 4. Untreated group 3 rats exhibited a progressivereduction in GFR (0.35 +/- 0.08 ml/min at 4 months, 0.27 +/- 0.07 ml/min at 6months). Enalapril treatment blunted but did not prevent reduction in GFR in group 4(0.86 +/- 0.15 ml/min at 4 months, 0.69 +/- 0.13 ml/min at 6 months, both P lessthan 0.05 vs. group 3). Reduction in GFR was associated with the development ofglomerular sclerosis in both treated and untreated rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250WORDS)
2559236	CID	adriamycin	albuminuria
2559236	CID	adriamycin	nephrosis

21029050|t|Butyrylcholinesterase gene mutations in patients with prolonged apnea aftersuccinylcholine for electroconvulsive therapy.BACKGROUND: patients undergoing electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) often receivesuccinylcholine as part of the anesthetic procedure. The duration of action may beprolonged in patients with genetic variants of the butyrylcholinesterase enzyme(BChE), the most common being the K- and the A-variants. The aim of the study was toassess the clinical significance of genetic variants in butyrylcholinesterase gene(BCHE) in patients with a suspected prolonged duration of action of succinylcholineafter ECT. METHODS: a total of 13 patients were referred to the DanishCholinesterase Research Unit after ECT during 38 months. We determined the BChEactivity and the BCHE genotype using molecular genetic methods, the duration ofapnea, time to sufficient spontaneous ventilation and whether neuromuscularmonitoring was used. The duration of apnea was compared with published data onnormal subjects. RESULTS: in 11 patients, mutations were found in the BCHE gene, theK-variant being the most frequent. The duration of apnea was 5-15 min compared with3-5.3 min from the literature. Severe distress was noted in the recovery phase intwo patients. Neuromuscular monitoring was used in two patients. CONCLUSION: elevenof 13 patients with a prolonged duration of action of succinylcholine had mutationsin BCHE, indicating that this is the possible reason for a prolonged period ofapnea. We recommend objective neuromuscular monitoring during the first ECT.
21029050	CID	succinylcholine	apnea

10901305|t|Ketamine sedation for the reduction of children's fractures in the emergencydepartment.BACKGROUND: There recently has been a resurgence in the utilization of ketamine, aunique anesthetic, for emergency-department procedures requiring sedation. Thepurpose of the present study was to examine the safety and efficacy of ketamine forsedation in the treatment of children's fractures in the emergency department.METHODS: One hundred and fourteen children (average age, 5.3 years; range, twelvemonths to ten years and ten months) who underwent closed reduction of an isolatedfracture or dislocation in the emergency department at a level-I trauma center wereprospectively evaluated. Ketamine hydrochloride was administered intravenously (at adose of two milligrams per kilogram of body weight) in ninety-nine of the patientsand intramuscularly (at a dose of four milligrams per kilogram of body weight) inthe other fifteen. A board-certified emergency physician skilled in airwaymanagement supervised administration of the anesthetic, and the patients weremonitored by a registered nurse. Any pain during the reduction was rated by theorthopaedic surgeon treating the patient according to the Children's Hospitalof Eastern Ontario Pain Scale (CHEOPS). RESULTS: The average time from intravenousadministration of ketamine to manipulation of the fracture or dislocation was oneminute and thirty-six seconds (range, twenty seconds to five minutes), and theaverage time from intramuscular administration to manipulation was four minutes andforty-two seconds (range, sixty seconds to fifteen minutes). The average scoreaccording to the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale was 6.4points (range, 5 to 10 points), reflecting minimal or no pain during fracturereduction. Adequate fracture reduction was obtained in 111 of the children.Ninety-nine percent (sixty-eight) of the sixty-nine parents present during thereduction were pleased with the sedation and would allow it to be used again in asimilar situation. Patency of the airway and independent respiration were maintainedin all of the patients. Blood pressure and heart rate remained stable. Minor sideeffects included nausea (thirteen patients), emesis (eight of the thirteen patientswith nausea), clumsiness (evident as ataxic movements in ten patients), anddysphoric reaction (one patient). No long-term sequelae were noted, and no patientshad hallucinations or nightmares. CONCLUSIONS: Ketamine reliably, safely, andquickly provided adequate sedation to effectively facilitate the reduction ofchildren's fractures in the emergency department at our institution. Ketamineshould only be used in an environment such as the emergency department, where properone-on-one monitoring is used and board-certified physicians skilled in airwaymanagement are directly involved in the care of the patient.
10901305	CID	Ketamine	nausea
10901305	CID	Ketamine	emesis
10901305	CID	Ketamine	clumsiness

19037603|t|Prophylactic use of lamivudine with chronic immunosuppressive therapy forrheumatologic disorders.The objective of this study was to report our experience concerning theeffectiveness of the prophylactic administration of lamivudine in hepatitis B virussurface antigen (HBs Ag) positive patients with rheumatologic disease. From June2004 to October 2006, 11 HBs Ag positive patients with rheumatologic diseases, whowere on both immunosuppressive and prophylactic lamivudine therapies, wereretrospectively assessed. Liver function tests, hepatitis B virus (HBV) serologicmarkers, and HBV DNA levels of the patients during follow-up were obtained fromhospital file records. Eleven patients (six male) with median age 47 years (range27-73), median disease duration 50 months (range 9-178) and median follow-up periodof patients 13.8 months (range 5-27) were enrolled in this study. Lamivudine therapywas started 3-7 days prior to immunosuppressive therapy in all patients. Baseline,liver function tests were elevated in two patients (fourth patient: ALT:122 IU/l,AST:111 IU/l, tenth patient:ALT:294 IU/l, AST:274 IU/l, with minimal changes in theliver biopsy in both). Shortly after treatment their tests normalized and duringfollow-up period none of the patients had abnormal liver function tests. In fourpatients HBV DNA levels were higher than normal at baseline. Two of these normalizedand the others increased later. In three additional patients, HBV DNA levels wereincreased during follow-up. None of the patients had significant clinical sings ofHBV activation. Lamivudine was well tolerated and was continued in all patients.Prophylactic administration of lamivudine in patients who required immunosuppressivetherapy seems to be safe, well tolerated and effective in preventing HBVreactivation.
19037603	CID	hepatitis B virus surface antigen	hepatitis B

20084309|t|Safety of transesophageal echocardiography in adults: study in a multidisciplinaryhospital.BACKGROUND: TEE is a semi-invasive tool broadly used and its utilizationassociated to sedatives drugs might to affect the procedure safety. OBJECTIVE: toanalyze aspects of TEE safety associated to the use of Midazolan (MZ) and Flumazenil(FL) and the influence of the clinical variables on the event rate. METHOD:prospective study with 137 patients that underwent TEE with MZ associated tomoderate sedation. We analyzed the following events: complications related with thetopical anesthesia, with MZ use and with the procedure. Uni- and multivariateanalyses were used to test the influence of the clinical variables: age, sex,stroke, myocardiopathy (MP), duration of the test, mitral regurgitation (MR) and theMZ dose. RESULTS: All patients (65+/-16 yrs; 58% males) finished the examination.The mean doses of MZ and FL were 4.3+/-1.9 mg and 0.28+/-0.2 mg, respectively. Theduration of the examination and the mean ejection fraction (EF) were 16.4+/-6.1minutes and 60+/-9%, respectively. Mild hypoxia (SO2<90%) was the most commonevent (11 patients); 3 patients (2%) presented transient hypoxia due to upper airwayobstruction by probe introduction and 8 (5.8%) due to hypoxia caused by MZ use.Transient hypotension (SAP<90mmHg) occurred in 1 patient (0.7%). The multivariateanalysis showed that severe MR, MP (EF<45%) and high doses of MZ (>5mg) wereassociated with events (p<0.001). The EF was 40%, in the group with MP and 44% inthe group with severe MR and it can be a factor associated with clinical events inthe last group. CONCLUSION: TEE with sedation presents a low rate of events. Therewere no severe events and there was no need to interrupt the examinations.
20084309	CID	Midazolan	hypoxia

8231633|t|Effects of calcium channel blockers on bupivacaine-induced toxicity.The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of calcium channelblockers on bupivacaine-induced acute toxicity. For each of the three tested calciumchannel blockers (diltiazem, verapamil and bepridil) 6 groups of mice were treatedby two different doses, i.e. 2 and 10 mg/kg/i.p., or an equal volume of saline forthe control group (n = 20); 15 minutes later, all the animals were injected with asingle 50 mg/kg/i.p. dose of bupivacaine. The convulsant activity, the time oflatency to convulse and the mortality rate were assessed in each group. The localanesthetic-induced mortality was significantly increased by the three differentcalcium channel blockers. The convulsant activity of bupivacaine was notsignificantly modified but calcium channel blockers decreased the time of latency toobtain bupivacaine-induced convulsions; this effect was less pronounced withbepridil.
8231633	CID	bupivacaine	convulsions

10091617|t|Selegiline-induced postural hypotension in Parkinson's disease: alongitudinal study on the effects of drug withdrawal.OBJECTIVES: The United Kingdom Parkinson's Disease Research Group (UKPDRG)trial found an increased mortality in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD)randomized to receive 10 mg selegiline per day and L-dopa compared with those takingL-dopa alone. Recently, we found that therapy with selegiline and L-dopa wasassociated with selective systolic orthostatic hypotension which was abolished bywithdrawal of selegiline. This unwanted effect on postural blood pressure was notthe result of underlying autonomic failure. The aims of this study were to confirmour previous findings in a separate cohort of patients and to determine the timecourse of the cardiovascular consequences of stopping selegiline in the expectationthat this might shed light on the mechanisms by which the drug causes orthostatichypotension. METHODS: The cardiovascular responses to standing and head-up tilt werestudied repeatedly in PD patients receiving selegiline and as the drug waswithdrawn. RESULTS: Head-up tilt caused systolic orthostatic hypotension which wasmarked in six of 20 PD patients on selegiline, one of whom lost consciousness withunrecordable blood pressures. A lesser degree of orthostatic hypotension occurredwith standing. Orthostatic hypotension was ameliorated 4 days after withdrawal ofselegiline and totally abolished 7 days after discontinuation of the drug. Stoppingselegiline also significantly reduced the supine systolic and diastolic bloodpressures consistent with a previously undescribed supine pressor action.CONCLUSION: This study confirms our previous finding that selegiline in combinationwith L-dopa is associated with selective orthostatic hypotension. The possibilitiesthat these cardiovascular findings might be the result of non-selective inhibitionof monoamine oxidase or of amphetamine and metamphetamine are discussed.
10091617	CID	Selegiline	postural hypotension

19269743|t|Explicit episodic memory for sensory-discriminative components ofcapsaicin-induced pain: immediate and delayed ratings.Pain memory is thought to affect future pain sensitivity and thus contribute toclinical pain conditions. Systematic investigations of the human capacity toremember sensory features of experimental pain are sparse. In order to addresslong-term pain memory, nine healthy male volunteers received intradermal injectionsof three doses of capsaicin (0.05, 1 and 20 microg, separated by 15 min breaks),each given three times in a balanced design across three sessions at one weekintervals. Pain rating was performed using a computerized visual analogue scale(0-100) digitized at 1/s, either immediately online or one hour or one day afterinjection. Subjects also recalled their pains one week later. Capsaicin injectionreliably induced a dose-dependent flare (p<0.001) without any difference withinor across sessions. The strong burning pain decayed exponentially within a fewminutes. Subjects were able to reliably discriminate pain magnitude and durationacross capsaicin doses (both p<0.001), regardless of whether first-time ratingswere requested immediately, after one hour or after one day. Pain recall after oneweek was similarly precise (magnitude: p<0.01, duration: p<0.05). Correlationwith rating recall after one week was best when first-time ratings were requested aslate as one day after injection (R(2)=0.79) indicating that both rating retrievalsutilized similar memory traces. These results indicate a reliable memory formagnitude and duration of experimentally induced pain. The data further suggest thatthe consolidation of this memory is an important interim stage, and may take up toone day.
19269743	CID	capsaicin	pain

3070035|t|Reversibility of captopril-induced renal insufficiency after prolonged use in anunusual case of renovascular hypertension.We report a case of severe hypertension with an occluded renal artery to asolitary kidney, who developed sudden deterioration of renal function followingtreatment with captopril. His renal function remained impaired but stable during 2years' treatment with captopril but returned to pre-treatment levels soon aftercessation of the drug. This indicates reversibility in captopril-induced renalfailure even after its prolonged use and suggests that no organic damage occurs toglomerular arterioles following chronic ACE inhibition.
3070035	CID	captopril	sudden deterioration of renal function

1147734|t|Liver disease caused by propylthiouracil.This report presents the clinical, laboratory, and light and electron microscopicobservations on a patient with chronic active (aggressive) hepatitis caused by theadministration of propylthiouracil. This is an addition to the list of drugs thatmust be considered in the evaluation of chronic liver disease.
1147734	CID	propylthiouracil	chronic active (aggressive) hepatitis

12202650|t|Capsaicin-induced muscle pain alters the excitability of the human jaw-stretchreflex.The pathophysiology of painful temporomandibular disorders is not fullyunderstood, but evidence suggests that muscle pain modulates motor function incharacteristic ways. This study tested the hypothesis that activation of nociceptivemuscle afferent fibers would be linked to an increased excitability of the humanjaw-stretch reflex and whether this process would be sensitive to length andvelocity of the stretch. Capsaicin (10 micro g) was injected into the massetermuscle to induce pain in 11 healthy volunteers. Short-latency reflex responses wereevoked in the masseter and temporalis muscles by a stretch device with differentvelocities and displacements before, during, and after the pain. The normalizedreflex amplitude increased with an increase in velocity at a given displacement, butremained constant with different displacements at a given velocity. The normalizedreflex amplitude was significantly higher during pain, but only at faster stretchesin the painful muscle. Increased sensitivity of the fusimotor system during acutemuscle pain could be one likely mechanism to explain the findings.
12202650	CID	Capsaicin	pain

18951540|t|Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation for levodopa-induced dyskinesias inParkinson's disease.In a placebo-controlled, single-blinded, crossover study, we assessed the effectof "real" repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) versus"sham" rTMS (placebo) on peak dose dyskinesias in patients withParkinson's disease (PD). Ten patients with PD and prominent dyskinesias hadrTMS (1,800 pulses; 1 Hz rate) delivered over the motor cortex for 4 consecutivedays twice, once real stimuli and once sham stimulation were used; evaluations weredone at the baseline and 1 day after the end of each of the treatment series. Directcomparison between sham and real rTMS effects showed no significant difference inclinician-assessed dyskinesia severity. However, comparison with the baseline showedsmall but significant reduction in dyskinesia severity following real rTMS but notplacebo. The major effect was on dystonia subscore. Similarly, in patient diaries,although both treatments caused reduction in subjective dyskinesia scores during thedays of intervention, the effect was sustained for 3 days after the intervention forthe real rTMS only. Following rTMS, no side effects and no adverse effects on motorfunction and PD symptoms were noted. The results suggest the existence of residualbeneficial clinical aftereffects of consecutive daily applications of low-frequencyrTMS on dyskinesias in PD. The effects may be further exploited for potentialtherapeutic uses.
18951540	CID	levodopa	dyskinesias

19657887|t|Disulfiram-like syndrome after hydrogen cyanamide professional skin exposure: twocase reports in France.Hydrogen cyanamide is a plant growth regulator used in agriculture to induce budbreak in fruit trees. Contact with the skin can result in percutaneous absorption ofthe substance that inhibits aldehyde dehydrogenase and can induce acetaldehydesyndrome in case of alcohol use. The purpose of this report is to describe two casesof a disulfiram-like syndrome following occupational exposure to hydrogen cyanamide.The first case involved a 59-year-old man who used Dormex, which contains hydrogencyanamide, without protection after consuming a large amount of alcohol during ameal. In less than 1 hour after the ingestion of alcohol, he developed malaise withflushing of the face, tachycardia, and dyspnea. Manifestations regressedspontaneously under surveillance in the hospital. The second case occurred in a55-year-old farmer following cutaneous contact with Dormex. Five hours afterexposure, he developed disulfiram-like syndrome with flushing, tachycardia, andarterial hypotension after consuming three glasses of wine. The patient recoveredspontaneously in 3 hours under surveillance in the hospital. These cases confirm thenecessity of avoiding alcohol consumption as recommended in the instructions for useof Dormex and of preventing cutaneous contact during use.
19657887	CID	alcohol	arterial hypotension
19657887	CID	alcohol	flushing of the face
19657887	CID	hydrogen cyanamide	arterial hypotension
19657887	CID	alcohol	dyspnea
19657887	CID	hydrogen cyanamide	tachycardia
19657887	CID	hydrogen cyanamide	dyspnea
19657887	CID	alcohol	tachycardia
19657887	CID	hydrogen cyanamide	flushing of the face

9660111|t|Repeated trimipramine induces dopamine D2/D3 and alpha1-adrenergic up-regulation.Trimipramine (TRI), which shows a clinical antidepressant activity, is chemicallyrelated to imipramine but does not inhibit the reuptake of noradrenaline and5-hydroxytryptamine, nor does it induce beta-adrenergic down-regulation. Themechanism of its antidepressant activity is still unknown. The aim of the presentstudy was to find out whether TRI given repeatedly was able to induce adaptivechanges in the dopaminergic and alpha1-adrenergic systems, demonstrated by uspreviously for various antidepressants. TRI was given to male Wistar rats and maleAlbino Swiss mice perorally twice daily for 14 days. In the acute experiment TRI(given i.p.) does not antagonize the reserpine hypothermia in mice and does notpotentiate the 5-hydroxytryptophan head twitches in rats. TRI given repeatedly torats increases the locomotor hyperactivity induced by d-amphetamine, quinpirole and(+)-7-hydroxy-dipropyloaminotetralin (dopamine D2 and D3 effects). The stereotypiesinduced by d-amphetamine or apomorphine are not potentiated by TRI. It increases thebehaviour stimulation evoked by phenylephrine (given intraventricularly) in rats,evaluated in the open field test as well as the aggressiveness evoked by clonidinein mice, both these effects being mediated by an alpha1-adrenergic receptor. It maybe concluded that, like other tricyclic antidepressants studied previously, TRIgiven repeatedly increases the responsiveness of brain dopamine D2 and D3 (locomotoractivity but not stereotypy) as well as alpha1-adrenergic receptors to theiragonists. A question arises whether the reuptake inhibition is of any importance tothe adaptive changes induced by repeated antidepressants, suggested to beresponsible for the antidepressant activity.
9660111	CID	d-amphetamine	hyperactivity
9660111	CID	reserpine	hypothermia
9660111	CID	trimipramine	hyperactivity
9660111	CID	quinpirole	hyperactivity

11431197|t|Ranitidine-induced acute interstitial nephritis in a cadaveric renal allograft.Ranitidine frequently is used for preventing peptic ulceration after renaltransplantation. This drug occasionally has been associated with acute interstitialnephritis in native kidneys. There are no similar reports with renaltransplantation. We report a case of ranitidine-induced acute interstitial nephritisin a recipient of a cadaveric renal allograft presenting with acute allograftdysfunction within 48 hours of exposure to the drug. The biopsy specimen showedpathognomonic features, including eosinophilic infiltration of the interstitialcompartment. Allograft function improved rapidly and returned to baseline afterstopping the drug.
11431197	CID	Ranitidine	interstitial nephritis

7449470|t|Late, late doxorubicin cardiotoxicity.Cardiac toxicity is a major complication which limits the use of adriamycin as achemotherapeutic agent. Cardiomyopathy is frequent when the total dose exceeds 600mg/m2 and occurs within one to six months after cessation of therapy. A patient isreported who developed progressive cardiomyopathy two and one-half years afterreceiving 580 mg/m2 which apparently represents late, late cardiotoxicity.
7449470	CID	doxorubicin	Cardiomyopathy

8170551|t|Acetazolamide-induced nephrolithiasis: implications for treatment of neuromusculardisorders.Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors can cause nephrolithiasis. We studied 20 patientsreceiving long-term carbonic anhydrase inhibitor treatment for periodic paralysisand myotonia. Three patients on acetazolamide (15%) developed renal calculi.Extracorporeal lithotripsy successfully removed a renal calculus in one patient andsurgery removed a staghorn calculus in another, permitting continued treatment.Renal function remained normal in all patients. Nephrolithiasis is a complication ofacetazolamide but does not preclude its use.
8170551	CID	Acetazolamide	renal calculi

2476560|t|Is the treatment of scabies hazardous?Treatment for scabies is usually initiated by general practitioners; most considerlindane (gamma benzene hexachloride) the treatment of choice. Lindane is also widelyused as an agricultural and industrial pesticide, and as a result the toxic profileof this insecticide is well understood. Evidence is accumulating that lindane can betoxic to the central nervous system and may be associated with aplastic anaemia.Preparations containing lindane continue to be sold over the counter and mayrepresent a hazard to poorly informed patients. This literature review suggests thatgeneral practitioners should prescribe scabicides with increased caution for certainat-risk groups, and give adequate warnings regarding potential toxicity.
2476560	CID	lindane	aplastic anaemia
2476560	CID	lindane	toxic to the central nervous system

19803309|t|Anaesthetists' nightmare: masseter spasm after induction in an undiagnosedcase of myotonia congenita.We report an undiagnosed case of myotonia congenita in a 24-year-old previouslyhealthy primigravida, who developed life threatening masseter spasm following astandard dose of intravenous suxamethonium for induction of anaesthesia. Neither thepatient nor the anaesthetist was aware of the diagnosis before this potentiallylethal complication occurred.
19803309	CID	suxamethonium	masseter spasm

18821488|t|Toxicity in rhesus monkeys following administration of the 8-aminoquinoline8-[(4-amino-l-methylbutyl)amino]- 5-(l-hexyloxy)-6-methoxy-4-methylquinoline(WR242511).INTRODUCTION: Many substances that form methemoglobin (MHb) effectively countercyanide (CN) toxicity. Although MHb formers are generally applied as treatments forCN poisoning, it has been proposed that a stable, long-acting MHb former could serveas a CN pretreatment. Using this rationale, the 8-aminoquinoline WR242511, a potentlong-lasting MHb former in rodents and beagle dogs, was studied in the rhesus monkeyfor advanced development as a potential CN pretreatment. METHODS: In this study,WR242511 was administered intravenously (IV) in 2 female and 4 male rhesus monkeysin doses of 3.5 and/or 7.0 mg/kg; a single male also received WR242511 orally (PO)at 7.0 mg/kg. Health status and MHb levels were monitored following exposure.RESULTS: The selected doses of WR242511, which produced significantmethemoglobinemia in beagle dogs in earlier studies conducted elsewhere, producedvery little MHb (mean < 2.0%) in the rhesus monkey. Furthermore, transienthemoglobinuria was noted approximately 60 minutes postinjection of WR242511 (3.5 or7.0 mg/kg), and 2 lethalities occurred (one IV and one PO) following the 7.0 mg/kgdose. Myoglobinuria was also observed following the 7.0 mg/kg dose. Histopathologyanalyses in the 2 animals that died revealed liver and kidney toxicity, with greaterseverity in the orally-treated animal. CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate directand/or indirect drug-induced toxicity. It is concluded that WR242511 should not bepursued as a pretreatment for CN poisoning unless the anti-CN characteristics ofthis compound can be successfully dissociated from those producing undesirabletoxicity.
18821488	CID	8-[(4-amino-l-methylbutyl)amino]- 5-(l-hexyloxy)-6-methoxy-4-methylquinoline	kidney toxicity
18821488	CID	8-[(4-amino-l-methylbutyl)amino]- 5-(l-hexyloxy)-6-methoxy-4-methylquinoline	liver toxicity
18821488	CID	8-[(4-amino-l-methylbutyl)amino]- 5-(l-hexyloxy)-6-methoxy-4-methylquinoline	hemoglobinuria
18821488	CID	8-[(4-amino-l-methylbutyl)amino]- 5-(l-hexyloxy)-6-methoxy-4-methylquinoline	Myoglobinuria

8372922|t|Neuroplasticity of the adult primate auditory cortex following cochlear hearingloss.Tonotopic organization is an essential feature of the primary auditory area (A1)of primate cortex. In A1 of macaque monkeys, low frequencies are representedrostrolaterally and high frequencies are represented caudomedially. The purpose ofthis study was to determine if changes occur in this tonotopic organizationfollowing cochlear hearing loss. Under anesthesia, the superior temporal gyrus ofadult macaque monkeys was exposed, and the tonotopic organization of A1 was mappedusing conventional microelectrode recording techniques. Following recovery, themonkeys were selectively deafened for high frequencies using kanamycin andfurosemide. The actual frequencies deafened were determined by the loss oftone-burst elicited auditory brainstem responses. Three months after deafening, A1was remapped. Postmortem cytoarchitectural features identifying A1 were correlatedwith the electrophysiologic data. The results indicate that the deprived area of A1undergoes extensive reorganization and becomes responsive to intact cochlearfrequencies. The region of cortex that represents the low frequencies was notobviously affected by the cochlear hearing loss.
8372922	CID	furosemide	hearing loss
8372922	CID	kanamycin	hearing loss

9195768|t|The site of common side effects of sumatriptan.Atypical sensations following the use of subcutaneous sumatriptan are common, butof uncertain origin. They are almost always benign, but can be mistaken for aserious adverse event by the patient. Two patients are presented with tingling orburning sensations limited to areas of heat exposure or sunburn. In theseindividuals, side effects are most likely generated superficially in the skin.
9195768	CID	sumatriptan	Atypical sensations

15338796|t|Tremor side effects of salbutamol, quantified by a laser pointer technique.OBJECTIVE: To study tremor side effects of salbutamol an easily applicable, quickand low-priced method is needed. A new method using a commercially available,pen-shaped laser pointer was developed. Aim of the study was to determinesensitivity, reproducibility, reference values and the agreement with aquestionnaire. METHODS: Tremor was measured using a laser pointer technique. Todetermine sensitivity we assessed tremor in 44 patients with obstructive lungdisease after administration of cumulative doses of salbutamol. Subjects were askedto aim at the centre of a target, subdivided in concentric circles, from 5 mdistance. The circle in which the participant succeeded to aim was recorded inmillimetres radius. In another series of measurements, reproducibility and referencevalues of the tremor was assessed in 65 healthy subjects in three sessions, at 9a.m., 4 p.m. and 9 a.m., respectively, 1 week later. Postural tremor was measuredwith the arm horizontally outstretched rest tremor with the arm supported by anarmrest and finally tremor was measured after holding a 2-kg weight untilexhaustion. Inter-observer variability was measured in a series of 10 healthysubjects. Tremor was measured simultaneously by two independent observers. RESULTS:Salbutamol significantly increased tremor severity in patients in a dose-dependentway. Within healthy adults no age-dependency could be found (b = 0.262 mm/year; P =0.72). There was no agreement between the questionnaire and tremor severity (r =0.093; P = 0.53). Postural tremor showed no significant difference between the firstand third session (P = 0.07). Support of the arm decreased tremor severity,exhaustion increased tremor severity significantly. A good agreement was foundbetween two independent observers (interclass correlation coefficient 0.72).DISCUSSION: Quantifying tremor by using an inexpensive laser pointer is, with theexception of children (<12 years) a sensitive and reproducible method.
15338796	CID	salbutamol	Tremor

12627929|t|Increased frequency of venous thromboembolism with the combination of docetaxeland thalidomide in patients with metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer.STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the frequency of venous thromboembolism (VTE) inpatients with advanced androgen-independent prostate cancer who were treated withdocetaxel alone or in combination with thalidomide. DESIGN: Retrospective analysisof a randomized phase II trial. SETTING: National Institutes of Health clinicalresearch center. PATIENTS: Seventy men, aged 50-80 years, with advancedandrogen-independent prostate cancer. INTERVENTION: Each patient received eitherintravenous docetaxel 30 mg/m2/week for 3 consecutive weeks, followed by 1 week off,or the combination of continuous oral thalidomide 200 mg every evening plus the samedocetaxel regimen. This 4-week cycle was repeated until there was evidence ofexcessive toxicity or disease progression. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: None of 23patients who received docetaxel alone developed VTE, whereas 9 of 47 patients (19%)who received docetaxel plus thalidomide developed VTE (p=0.025). CONCLUSION: Theaddition of thalidomide to docetaxel in the treatment of prostate cancersignificantly increases the frequency of VTE. Clinicians should be aware of thispotential complication when adding thalidomide to chemotherapeutic regimens.
12627929	CID	thalidomide	venous thromboembolism
12627929	CID	docetaxel	venous thromboembolism

6634932|t|Sublingual absorption of the quaternary ammonium antiarrhythmic agent, UM-272.UM-272 (N,N-dimethylpropranolol), a quaternary antiarrhythmic agent, wasadministered sublingually to dogs with ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardias.Both anti-arrhythmic efficacy and bioavailability were compared to oral drug.Sublingual UM-272 converted ventricular tachycardia to sinus rhythm in all 5 dogs.The area under the plasma concentration time curve at 90 min was 4-12 times greaterthan for oral drug, suggesting the existence of an absorption-limiting process inthe intestine, and providing an alternate form of administration for quaternarydrugs.
6634932	CID	ouabain	ventricular tachycardias

18791946|t|Severe thrombocytopenia and haemolytic anaemia associated with ciprofloxacin: acase report with fatal outcome.Haematological adverse reactions associated with fatal outcome are rare duringtreatment with ciprofloxacin. A 30-year old Caucasian man reported with abdominalpain and jaundice after 3-day administration of oral ciprofloxacin for a suspect ofurinary tract infection. Clinical evaluations suggested an initial diagnosis ofsevere thrombocytopenia and haemolysis. The patient progressively developedpetechiae and purpura on thorax and lower limbs. Despite pharmacological andsupportive interventions, laboratory parameters worsened and the patient died 17hours after admission. An accurate autopsy revealed most organs with diffusepetechial haemorrhages. No signs of bone marrow depression were found. No thrombi orsigns of microangiopathies were observed in arterial vessels. Blood and urinecultures did not show any bacterial growth. This case report shows thatciprofloxacin may precipitate life-threatening thrombocytopenia and haemolyticanaemia, even in the early phases of treatment and without apparent previousexposures.
18791946	CID	ciprofloxacin	petechiae
18791946	CID	ciprofloxacin	jaundice
18791946	CID	ciprofloxacin	thrombocytopenia
18791946	CID	ciprofloxacin	haemolytic anaemia
18791946	CID	ciprofloxacin	abdominal pain

17344566|t|Simvastatin-induced bilateral leg compartment syndrome and myonecrosis associatedwith hypothyroidism.A 54-year-old hypothyroid male taking thyroxine and simvastatin presented withbilateral leg compartment syndrome and myonecrosis. Urgent fasciotomies wereperformed and the patient made an uneventful recovery with the withdrawal ofsimvastatin. It is likely that this complication will be seen more often with theincreased worldwide use of this drug and its approval for all arteriopathicpatients.
17344566	CID	Simvastatin	compartment syndrome

9293063|t|Bile duct hamartoma occurring in association with long-term treatment withdanazol.We report a case of bile duct hamartoma which developed in a patient who had beenon long-term danazol treatment. Such patients should be under close follow-up,preferably with periodic ultrasound examination of the liver. If the patientdevelops a liver mass, because of non-specific clinical features and imagingappearances, biopsy may be the only way to achieve a definitive diagnosis.
9293063	CID	danazol	Bile duct hamartoma
9293063	CID	danazol	hamartoma

1728522|t|Granulomatous hepatitis due to combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid.We report the case of a patient with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid-induced hepatitiswith histologic multiple granulomas. This type of lesion broadens the spectrum ofliver injury due to this drug combination, mainly represented by a benigncholestatic syndrome. The association of granulomas and eosinophilia favor animmunoallergic mechanism. As penicillin derivatives and amoxicillin alone are knownto induce such types of lesions, the amoxicillin component, with or without apotentiating effect of clavulanic acid, might have a major role.
1728522	CID	combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid	hepatitis
1728522	CID	combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid	Granulomatous
1728522	CID	combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid	cholestatic syndrome

10807237|t|Intracranial aneurysms and cocaine abuse: analysis of prognostic indicators.OBJECTIVE: The outcome of subarachnoid hemorrhage associated with cocaine abuse isreportedly poor. However, no study in the literature has reported the use of astatistical model to analyze the variables that influence outcome. METHODS: A reviewof admissions during a 6-year period revealed 14 patients with cocaine-relatedaneurysms. This group was compared with a control group of 135 patients withruptured aneurysms and no history of cocaine abuse. Age at presentation, time ofictus after intoxication, Hunt and Hess grade of subarachnoid hemorrhage, size ofthe aneurysm, location of the aneurysm, and the Glasgow Outcome Scale score wereassessed and compared. RESULTS: The patients in the study group were significantlyyounger than the patients in the control group (P < 0.002). In patients in thestudy group, all aneurysms were located in the anterior circulation. The majority ofthese aneurysms were smaller than those of the control group (8 +/- 6.08 mm versus11 +/- 5.4 mm; P = 0.05). The differences in mortality and morbidity between the twogroups were not significant. Hunt and Hess grade (P < 0.005) and age (P <0.007) were significant predictors of outcome for the patients with cocaine-relatedaneurysms. CONCLUSION: Cocaine use predisposed aneurysmal rupture at a significantlyearlier age and in much smaller aneurysms. Contrary to the published literature,this group did reasonably well with aggressive management.
10807237	CID	cocaine	ruptured aneurysms

12536034|t|Anti-epileptic drugs-induced de novo absence seizures.The authors present three patients with de novo absence epilepsy afteradministration of carbamazepine and vigabatrin. Despite the underlying diseases, theprognosis for drug-induced de novo absence seizure is good because it subsidesrapidly after discontinuing the use of the offending drugs. The gamma-aminobutyricacid-transmitted thalamocortical circuitry accounts for a major part of theunderlying neurophysiology of the absence epilepsy. Because drug-induced de novoabsence seizure is rare, pro-absence drugs can only be considered a promotingfactor. The underlying epileptogenecity of the patients or the synergistic effectsof the accompanying drugs is required to trigger the de novo absence seizure. Thepossibility of drug-induced aggravation should be considered whenever an unexpectedincrease in seizure frequency and/or new seizure types appear following a change indrug treatment. By understanding the underlying mechanism of absence epilepsy, wecan avoid the inappropriate use of anticonvulsants in children with epilepsy andprevent drug-induced absence seizures.
12536034	CID	vigabatrin	absence seizures
12536034	CID	carbamazepine	absence seizures

7234705|t|Procainamide-induced polymorphous ventricular tachycardia.Seven cases of procainamide-induced polymorphous ventricular tachycardia arepresented. In four patients, polymorphous ventricular tachycardia appeared afterintravenous administration of 200 to 400 mg of procainamide for the treatment ofsustained ventricular tachycardia. In the remaining three patients, procainamide wasadministered orally for treatment of chronic premature ventricular contractions oratrial flutter. These patients had Q-T prolongation and recurrent syncope due topolymorphous ventricular tachycardia. In four patients, the arrhythmia was rapidlydiagnosed and treated with disappearance of further episodes of the arrhythmia. Intwo patients, the arrhythmia degenerated into irreversible ventricular fibrillationand both patients died. In the seventh patient, a permanent ventricular pacemakerwas inserted and, despite continuation of procainamide therapy, polymorphousventricular tachycardia did not reoccur. These seven cases demonstrate thatprocainamide can produce an acquired prolonged Q-T syndrome with polymorphousventricular tachycardia.
7234705	CID	Procainamide	ventricular tachycardia

8955532|t|Role of activation of bradykinin B2 receptors in disruption of the blood-brainbarrier during acute hypertension.Cellular mechanisms which account for disruption the blood-brain barrier duringacute hypertension are not clear. The goal of this study was to determine the roleof synthesis/release of bradykinin to activate B2 receptors in disruption of theblood-brain barrier during acute hypertension. Permeability of the blood-brainbarrier was quantitated by clearance of fluorescent-labeled dextran before andduring phenylephrine-induced acute hypertension in rats treated with vehicle andHoe-140 (0.1 microM). Phenylephrine infusion increased arterial pressure, arteriolardiameter and clearance of fluorescent dextran by a similar magnitude in both groups.These findings suggest that disruption of the blood-brain barrier during acutehypertension is not related to the synthesis/release of bradykinin to activate B2receptors.
8955532	CID	phenylephrine	hypertension

2578334|t|5-azacytidine potentiates initiation induced by carcinogens in rat liver.To test the validity of the hypothesis that hypomethylation of DNA plays animportant role in the initiation of carcinogenic process, 5-azacytidine (5-AzC) (10mg/kg), an inhibitor of DNA methylation, was given to rats during the phase ofrepair synthesis induced by the three carcinogens, benzo[a]-pyrene (200 mg/kg),N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (60 mg/kg) and 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (1,2-DMH) (100 mg/kg).The initiated hepatocytes in the liver were assayed as the gamma-glutamyltransferase(gamma-GT) positive foci formed following a 2-week selection regimen consisting ofdietary 0.02% 2-acetylaminofluorene coupled with a necrogenic dose of CCl4. Theresults obtained indicate that with all three carcinogens, administration of 5-AzCduring repair synthesis increased the incidence of initiated hepatocytes, forexample 10-20 foci/cm2 in 5-AzC and carcinogen-treated rats compared with 3-5foci/cm2 in rats treated with carcinogen only. Administration of[3H]-5-azadeoxycytidine during the repair synthesis induced by 1,2-DMH furthershowed that 0.019 mol % of cytosine residues in DNA were substituted by theanalogue, indicating that incorporation of 5-AzC occurs during repair synthesis. Inthe absence of the carcinogen, 5-AzC given after a two thirds partial hepatectomy,when its incorporation should be maximum, failed to induce any gamma-GT positivefoci. The results suggest that hypomethylation of DNA per se may not be sufficientfor initiation. Perhaps two events might be necessary for initiation, the firstcaused by the carcinogen and a second involving hypomethylation of DNA.
2578334	CID	2-acetylaminofluorene	initiation induced by carcinogens
2578334	CID	benzo[a]-pyrene	initiation induced by carcinogens
2578334	CID	CCl4	initiation induced by carcinogens
2578334	CID	5-azacytidine	initiation induced by carcinogens
2578334	CID	1,2-dimethylhydrazine	initiation induced by carcinogens
2578334	CID	N-methyl-N-nitrosourea	initiation induced by carcinogens

11532387|t|Withdrawal-emergent rabbit syndrome during dose reduction of risperidone.Rabbit syndrome (RS) is a rare extrapyramidal side effect caused by prolongedneuroleptic medication. Here we present a case of withdrawal-emergent RS, which isthe first of its kind to be reported. The patient developed RS during dose reductionof risperidone. The symptom was treated successfully with trihexyphenidylanticholinergic therapy. The underlying mechanism of withdrawal-emergent RS in thepresent case may have been related to the pharmacological profile of risperidone, aserotonin-dopamine antagonist, suggesting the pathophysiologic influence of theserotonin system in the development of RS.
11532387	CID	risperidone	emergent rabbit syndrome
11532387	CID	risperidone	Withdrawal syndrome

3173179|t|Verapamil withdrawal as a possible cause of myocardial infarction in ahypertensive woman with a normal coronary angiogram.Verapamil is an effective and relatively-safe antihypertensive drug. Seriousadverse effects are uncommon and mainly have been related to the depression ofcardiac contractility and conduction, especially when the drug is combined withbeta-blocking agents. We report a case in which myocardial infarction coincided withthe introduction of captopril and the withdrawal of verapamil in a previouslyasymptomatic woman with severe hypertension. Possible mechanisms that involve averapamil-related increase in platelet and/or vascular alpha 2-adrenoreceptoraffinity for catecholamines are discussed.
3173179	CID	Verapamil	myocardial infarction

3856631|t|Remission induction of meningeal leukemia with high-dose intravenous methotrexate.Twenty children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who developed meningeal diseasewere treated with a high-dose intravenous methotrexate regimen that was designed toachieve and maintain CSF methotrexate concentrations of 10(-5) mol/L without theneed for concomitant intrathecal dosing. The methotrexate was administered as aloading dose of 6,000 mg/m2 for a period of one hour followed by an infusion of1,200 mg/m2/h for 23 hours. Leucovorin rescue was initiated 12 hours after the endof the infusion with a loading dose of 200 mg/m2 followed by 12 mg/m2 every threehours for six doses and then every six hours until the plasma methotrexate leveldecreased to less than 1 X 10(-7) mol/L. The mean steady-state plasma and CSFmethotrexate concentrations achieved were 1.1 X 10(-3) mol/L and 3.6 X 10(-5) mol/L,respectively. All 20 patients responded to this regimen, 16/20 (80%) achieved acomplete remission, and 20% obtained a partial remission. The most common toxicitiesencountered were transient serum transaminase and bilirubin elevations, neutropenia,and mucositis. One patient had focal seizures and transient hemiparesis butrecovered completely. High-dose intravenous methotrexate is an effective treatmentfor the induction of remission after meningeal relapse in acute lymphoblasticleukemia.
3856631	CID	methotrexate	transient hemiparesis
3856631	CID	methotrexate	neutropenia
3856631	CID	methotrexate	seizures
3856631	CID	methotrexate	mucositis

2522601|t|Hypersensitivity to carbamazepine presenting with a leukemoid reaction,eosinophilia, erythroderma, and renal failure.We report a patient in whom hypersensitivity to carbamazepine presented withgeneralized erythroderma, a severe leukemoid reaction, eosinophilia, hyponatremia,and renal failure. This is the first report of such an unusual reaction tocarbamazepine.
2522601	CID	carbamazepine	renal failure
2522601	CID	carbamazepine	erythroderma
2522601	CID	carbamazepine	leukemoid reaction
2522601	CID	carbamazepine	Hypersensitivity
2522601	CID	carbamazepine	hyponatremia

8741744|t|The interpeduncular nucleus regulates nicotine's effects on free-fieldactivity.Partial lesions were made with kainic acid in the interpeduncular nucleus of theventral midbrain of the rat. Compared with sham-operated controls, lesionssignificantly (p < 0.25) blunted the early (<60 min) free-field locomotorhypoactivity caused by nicotine (0.5 mg kg(-1), i.m.), enhanced the later (60-120min) nicotine-induced hyperactivity, and raised spontaneous nocturnal activity.Lesions reduced the extent of immunohistological staining for cholineacetyltransferase in the interpeduncular nucleus (p <0.025), but not for tyrosinehydroxylase in the surrounding catecholaminergic A10 region. We conclude that theinterpeduncular nucleus mediates nicotinic depression of locomotor activity anddampens nicotinic arousal mechanisms located elsewhere in the brain.
8741744	CID	nicotine	hyperactivity

17491223|t|Assessment of a new non-invasive index of cardiac performance for detection ofdobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia.BACKGROUND: Electrocardiography has a very low sensitivity in detectingdobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia. OBJECTIVES: To assess the added diagnosticvalue of a new cardiac performance index (dP/dtejc) measurement, based on brachialartery flow changes, as compared to standard 12-lead ECG, for detectingdobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia, using Tc99m-Sestamibi single-photon emissioncomputed tomography as the gold standard of comparison to assess the presence orabsence of ischemia. METHODS: The study group comprised 40 patients undergoingSestamibi-SPECT/dobutamine stress test. Simultaneous measurements of ECG andbrachial artery dP/dtejc were performed at each dobutamine level. In 19 of the 40patients perfusion defects compatible with ischemia were detected on SPECT. Theincrease in dP/dtejc during infusion of dobutamine in this group was severelyimpaired as compared to the non-ischemic group. dP/dtejc outcome was combined withthe ECG results, giving an ECG-enhanced value, and compared to ECG alone. RESULTS:The sensitivity improved dramatically from 16% to 79%, positive predictive valueincreased from 60% to 68% and negative predictive value from 54% to 78%, andspecificity decreased from 90% to 67%. CONCLUSIONS: If ECG alone is used forspecificity, the combination with dP/dtejc improved the sensitivity of the test andcould be a cost-savings alternative to cardiac imaging or perfusion studies todetect myocardial ischemia, especially in patients unable to exercise.
17491223	CID	dobutamine	myocardial ischemia

18004067|t|Acute liver failure in two patients with regular alcohol consumption ingestingparacetamol at therapeutic dosage.BACKGROUND: The possible role of alcohol in the development of hepatotoxicityassociated with therapeutic doses of paracetamol (acetaminophen) is currentlydebated. CASE REPORT: We describe 2 patients who were regular consumers of alcoholand who developed liver failure within 3-5 days after hospitalization and stoppingalcohol consumption while being treated with 4 g paracetamol/day. A paracetamolserum level obtained in one of these patients was not in the toxic range. Possiblerisk factors for the development of hepatotoxicity in patients treated withtherapeutic doses of paracetamol are discussed. CONCLUSION: In patients with riskfactors, e.g. regular consumption of alcohol, liver failure is possible whentherapeutic doses are ingested. We propose that the paracetamol dose should notexceed 2 g/day in such patients and that their liver function should be monitoredclosely while being treated with paracetamol.
18004067	CID	paracetamol	hepatotoxicity
18004067	CID	paracetamol	liver failure

12443032|t|Cocaine related chest pain: are we seeing the tip of an iceberg?The recreational use of cocaine is on the increase. The emergency nurse ought tobe familiar with some of the cardiovascular consequences of cocaine use. Inparticular, the tendency of cocaine to produce chest pain ought to be in the mind ofthe emergency nurse when faced with a young victim of chest pain who is otherwise atlow risk. The mechanism of chest pain related to cocaine use is discussed andtreatment dilemmas are discussed. Finally, moral issues relating to the testing ofpotential cocaine users will be addressed.
12443032	CID	Cocaine	chest pain

17615423|t|Severe rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure secondary to concomitant use ofsimvastatin, amiodarone, and atazanavir.OBJECTIVE: To report a case of a severe interaction between simvastatin,amiodarone, and atazanavir resulting in rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure.BACKGROUND: A 72-year-old white man with underlying human immunodeficiency virus,atrial fibrillation, coronary artery disease, and hyperlipidemia presented withgeneralized pain, fatigue, and dark orange urine for 3 days. The patient was taking80 mg simvastatin at bedtime (initiated 27 days earlier); amiodarone at a dose of400 mg daily for 7 days, then 200 mg daily (initiated 19 days earlier); and 400 mgatazanavir daily (initiated at least 2 years previously). Laboratory evaluationrevealed 66,680 U/L creatine kinase, 93 mg/dL blood urea nitrogen, 4.6 mg/dLcreatinine, 1579 U/L aspartate aminotransferase, and 738 U/L alanineaminotransferase. Simvastatin, amiodarone, and the patient's humanimmunodeficiency virus medications were all temporarily discontinued and the patientwas given forced alkaline diuresis and started on dialysis. Nine days later thepatient's creatine kinase had dropped to 1695 U/L and creatinine was 3.3 mg/dL.The patient was discharged and continued outpatient dialysis for 1 month until hisrenal function recovered. DISCUSSION: The risk of rhabdomyolysis is increased in thepresence of concomitant drugs that inhibit simvastatin metabolism. Simvastatin ismetabolized by CYP3A4. Amiodarone and atazanavir are recognized CYP3A4 inhibitors.CONCLUSIONS: Pharmacokinetic differences in statins are an important considerationfor assessing the risk of potential drug interactions. In patients requiring theconcurrent use of statins and CYP3A4 inhibitors, pravastatin, fluvastatin, androsuvastatin carry the lowest risk of drug interactions; atorvastatin carriesmoderate risk, whereas simvastatin and lovastatin have the highest risk and shouldbe avoided in patients taking concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors.
17615423	CID	amiodarone	acute renal failure
17615423	CID	atazanavir	acute renal failure
17615423	CID	simvastatin	rhabdomyolysis
17615423	CID	simvastatin	acute renal failure
17615423	CID	amiodarone	rhabdomyolysis
17615423	CID	atazanavir	rhabdomyolysis

8558192|t|Phase II trial of vinorelbine in metastatic squamous cell esophageal carcinoma.European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Gastrointestinal TreatCancer Cooperative Group.PURPOSE: To evaluate the response rate and toxic effects of vinorelbine (VNB)administered as a single agent in metastatic squamous cell esophageal carcinoma.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-six eligible patients with measurable lesions wereincluded and were stratified according to previous chemotherapy. Thirty patientswithout prior chemotherapy and 16 pretreated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy wereassessable for toxicity and response. VNB was administered weekly as a 25-mg/m2short intravenous (i.v.) infusion. RESULTS: Six of 30 patients (20%) without priorchemotherapy achieved a partial response (PR) (95% confidence interval [CI], 8% to39%). The median duration of response was 21 weeks (range, 17 to 28). One of 16patients (6%) with prior chemotherapy had a complete response (CR) of 31 weeks'duration (95% CI, 0% to 30%). The overall response rate (World Health Organization[WHO] criteria) was 15% (CR, 2%; PR 13%; 95% CI, 6% to 29%). The mediandose-intensity (DI) was 20 mg/m2/wk. VNB was well tolerated and zero instances ofWHO grade 4 nonhematologic toxicity occurred. At least one episode of grade 3 or 4granulocytopenia was seen in 59% of patients. A grade 2 or 3 infection occurred in16% of patients, but no toxic deaths occurred. Other side effects were rare, andperipheral neurotoxicity has been minor (26% grade 1). CONCLUSION: These dataindicate that VNB is an active agent in metastatic esophageal squamous cellcarcinoma. Given its excellent tolerance profile and low toxicity, furtherevaluation of VNB in combination therapy is warranted.
8558192	CID	vinorelbine	granulocytopenia
8558192	CID	vinorelbine	peripheral neurotoxicity

11135224|t|Paclitaxel, cisplatin, and gemcitabine combination chemotherapy within amultidisciplinary therapeutic approach in metastatic nonsmall cell lung carcinoma.BACKGROUND: Cisplatin-based chemotherapy combinations improve quality of life andsurvival in advanced nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). The emergence of newactive drugs might translate into more effective regimens for the treatment of thisdisease. METHODS: The objective of this study was to determine the feasibility,response rate, and toxicity of a paclitaxel, cisplatin, and gemcitabine combinationto treat metastatic NSCLC. Thirty-five consecutive chemotherapy-naive patients withStage IV NSCLC and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0-2were treated with a combination of paclitaxel (135 mg/m(2) given intravenously in 3hours) on Day 1, cisplatin (120 mg/m(2) given intravenously in 6 hours) on Day 1,and gemcitabine (800 mg/m(2) given intravenously in 30 minutes) on Days 1 and 8,every 4 weeks. Although responding patients were scheduled to receive consolidationradiotherapy and 24 patients received preplanned second-line chemotherapy afterdisease progression, the response and toxicity rates reported refer only to thechemotherapy regimen given. RESULTS: All the patients were examined for toxicity; 34were examinable for response. An objective response was observed in 73.5% of thepatients (95% confidence interval [CI], 55.6-87.1%), including 4 complete responses(11.7%). According to intention-to-treat, the overall response rate was 71.4% (95%CI, 53. 7-85.4%). After 154 courses of therapy, the median dose intensity was 131mg/m(2) for paclitaxel (97.3%), 117 mg/m(2) for cisplatin (97.3%), and 1378 mg/m(2)for gemcitabine (86.2%). World Health Organization Grade 3-4 neutropenia andthrombocytopenia occurred in 39.9% and 11.4% of patients, respectively. There wasone treatment-related death. Nonhematologic toxicities were mild. After a medianfollow-up of 22 months, the median progression free survival rate was 7 months, andthe median survival time was 16 months. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of paclitaxel,cisplatin, and gemcitabine is well tolerated and shows high activity in metastaticNSCLC. This treatment merits further comparison with other cisplatin-based regimens.
11135224	CID	cisplatin	neutropenia
11135224	CID	Paclitaxel	thrombocytopenia
11135224	CID	gemcitabine	neutropenia
11135224	CID	Paclitaxel	neutropenia
11135224	CID	gemcitabine	thrombocytopenia
11135224	CID	cisplatin	thrombocytopenia

8590259|t|Evaluation of adverse reactions of aponidine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution.We prospectively evaluated the adverse reactions of apraclonidine in 20 normalvolunteers by instilling a single drop of 1% apraclonidine in their right eyes.Examinations, including blood pressure, pulse rate, conjunctiva and cornea,intraocular pressure (IOP), pupil diameter, basal tear secretion and margin reflexdistance of both upper and lower eyelids, were performed prior to entry and at 1, 3,5 and 7 hours after instillation. The ocular hypotensive effects were statisticallysignificant for apraclonidine-treated eyes throughout the study and alsostatistically significant for contralateral eyes from three hours after topicaladministration of 1% apraclonidine. Decreases in systolic blood pressure werestatistically, but not clinically, significant. No significant changes in diastolicblood pressure, pulse rate and basal tear secretion were noted. Conjunctivalblanching and mydriasis were commonly found. Upper lid retraction was frequentlynoted. While the elevations of the upper lid margin in most subjects were not morethan 2 mm and did not cause noticeable change in appearance, one subject sufferedfrom mechanical entropion and marked corneal abrasion 3 hours after instillation ofthe medication. This may well be a particularly notable finding in Asian people.
8590259	CID	aponidine hydrochloride	ocular hypotensive
8590259	CID	aponidine hydrochloride	mydriasis
8590259	CID	aponidine hydrochloride	entropion
8590259	CID	aponidine hydrochloride	corneal abrasion
8590259	CID	aponidine hydrochloride	Conjunctival blanching

2096243|t|Carmofur-induced organic mental disorders.Organic mental disorder was observed in a 29-year-old female in the prognosticperiod after the onset of carmofur-induced leukoencephalopathy. Symptoms such aseuphoria, emotional lability and puerile attitude noted in the patient werediagnosed as organic personality syndrome according to the criteria defined in theDSM-III-R. It is referred to as a frontal lobe syndrome. Brain CT revealed aperiventricular low density area in the frontal white matter and moderate dilatationof the lateral ventricles especially at the bilateral anterior horns. Consequently,carmofur-induced leukoencephalopathy may uncommonly result in organic personalitysyndrome in the residual state. It may be attributed to the structural damage to thefrontal lobe.
2096243	CID	Carmofur	leukoencephalopathy
2096243	CID	Carmofur	organic mental disorders

6209318|t|International mexiletine and placebo antiarrhythmic coronary trial: I. Report onarrhythmia and other findings. Impact Research Group.The antiarrhythmic effects of the sustained release form of mexiletine(Mexitil-Perlongets) were evaluated in a double-blind placebo trial in 630 patientswith recent documented myocardial infarction. The primary response variable wasbased on central reading of 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic recordings andwas defined as the occurrence of 30 or more single premature ventricular complexesin any two consecutive 30 minute blocks or one or more runs of two or more prematureventricular complexes in the entire 24 hour electrocardiographic recording. Largedifferences, regarded as statistically significant, between the mexiletine andplacebo groups were noted in that end point at months 1 and 4, but only trends wereobserved at month 12. These differences were observed even though the serummexiletine levels obtained in this study were generally lower than those observed instudies that have used the regular form of the drug. There were more deaths in themexiletine group (7.6%) than in the placebo group (4.8%); the difference was notstatistically significant. The incidence of coronary events was similar in bothgroups. Previously recognized side effects, particularly tremor and gastrointestinalproblems, were more frequent in the mexiletine group than in the placebo group.
6209318	CID	mexiletine	tremor
6209318	CID	mexiletine	gastrointestinal problems

3615541|t|Regional localization of the antagonism of amphetamine-induced hyperactivity byintracerebral calcitonin injections.Calcitonin receptors are found in the brain, and intracerebral infusions ofcalcitonin can produce behavioral effects. Among these behavioral effects aredecreases in food intake and decreases in amphetamine-induced locomotor activity. Inprevious experiments we found that decreases in food intake were induced by localadministration of calcitonin into several hypothalamic sites and into the nucleusaccumbens. In the present experiment calcitonin decreased locomotor activity whenlocally injected into the same sites where it decreases food intake. The areas wherecalcitonin is most effective in decreasing locomotor activity are located in thehypothalamus and nucleus accumbens, suggesting that these areas are the major sitesof action of calcitonin in inhibiting amphetamine-induced locomotor activity.
3615541	CID	amphetamine	hyperactivity

8953972|t|Fatal intracranial bleeding associated with prehospital use of epinephrine.We present a case of paramedic misjudgment in the execution of a protocol for thetreatment of allergic reaction in a case of pulmonary edema with wheezing. Thesudden onset of respiratory distress, rash, and a history of a new medicine led thetwo paramedics on the scene to administer subcutaneous epinephrine. Subsequently,acute cardiac arrest and fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage occurred. Epinephrine has aproven role in cardiac arrest in prehospital care; however, use by paramedics inpatients with suspected allergic reaction and severe hypertension should be viewedwith caution.
8953972	CID	epinephrine	intracranial bleeding
8953972	CID	epinephrine	cardiac arrest

3782049|t|A case of massive rhabdomyolysis following molindone administration.Rhabdomyolysis is a potentially lethal syndrome that psychiatric patients seempredisposed to develop. The clinical signs and symptoms, typical laboratoryfeatures, and complications of rhabdomyolysis are presented. The case of aschizophrenic patient is reported to illustrate massive rhabdomyolysis andsubsequent acute renal failure following molindone administration. Physicians whoprescribe molindone should be aware of this reaction.
3782049	CID	molindone	rhabdomyolysis
3782049	CID	molindone	acute renal failure

9100294|t|Cardiovascular alterations in rat fetuses exposed to calcium channel blockers.Preclinical toxicologic investigation suggested that a new calcium channelblocker, Ro 40-5967, induced cardiovascular alterations in rat fetuses exposed tothis agent during organogenesis. The present study was designed to investigate thehypothesis that calcium channel blockers in general induce cardiovascularmalformations indicating a pharmacologic class effect. We studied three calciumchannel blockers of different structure, nifedipine, diltiazem, and verapamil, alongwith the new agent. Pregnant rats were administered one of these calcium channelblockers during the period of cardiac morphogenesis and the offspring examined onday 20 of gestation for cardiovascular malformations. A low incidence ofcardiovascular malformations was observed after exposure to each of the four calciumchannel blockers, but this incidence was statistically significant only forverapamil and nifedipine. All four agents were associated with aortic arch branchingvariants, although significantly increased only for Ro 40-5967 and verapamil.
9100294	CID	verapamil	Cardiovascular alterations
9100294	CID	nifedipine	Cardiovascular alterations
9100294	CID	Ro 40-5967	Cardiovascular alterations

19889778|t|Differential impact of immune escape mutations G145R and P120T on the replicationof lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus e antigen-positive and -negative strains.Immune escape variants of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) represent an emergingclinical challenge, because they can be associated with vaccine escape, HBVreactivation, and failure of diagnostic tests. Recent data suggest a preferentialselection of immune escape mutants in distinct peripheral blood leukocytecompartments of infected individuals. We therefore systematically analyzed thefunctional impact of the most prevalent immune escape variants, the sG145R andsP120T mutants, on the viral replication efficacy and antiviral drug susceptibilityof common treatment-associated mutants with resistance to lamivudine (LAM) and/orHBeAg negativity. Replication-competent HBV strains with sG145R or sP120T and LAMresistance (rtM204I or rtL180M/rtM204V) were generated on an HBeAg-positive and anHBeAg-negative background with precore (PC) and basal core promoter (BCP) mutants.The sG145R mutation strongly reduced HBsAg levels and was able to fully restore theimpaired replication of LAM-resistant HBV mutants to the levels of wild-type HBV,and PC or BCP mutations further enhanced viral replication. Although the sP120Tsubstitution also impaired HBsAg secretion, it did not enhance the replication ofLAM-resistant clones. However, the concomitant occurrence of HBeAg negativity(PC/BCP), sP120T, and LAM resistance resulted in the restoration of replication tolevels of wild-type HBV. In all clones with combined immune escape and LAMresistance mutations, the nucleotide analogues adefovir and tenofovir remainedeffective in suppressing viral replication in vitro. These findings reveal thedifferential impact of immune escape variants on the replication and drugsusceptibility of complex HBV mutants, supporting the need of close surveillance andtreatment adjustment in response to the selection of distinct mutational patterns.
19889778	CID	HBsAg	hepatitis B
19889778	CID	hepatitis B virus e antigen	hepatitis B

15278670|t|The effects of sevoflurane on lidocaine-induced convulsions.The influence of sevoflurane on lidocaine-induced convulsions was studied in cats.The convulsive threshold (mean +/- SD) was 41.4 +/- 6.5 mg. l(-1) with lidocaineinfusion (6 mg.kg(-1).min(-1)), increasing significantly to 66.6 +/- 10.9 mg. l(-1)when the end-tidal concentration of sevoflurane was 0.8%. However, the threshold(61.6 +/- 8.7 mg. l(-1)) during 1.6% sevoflurane was not significant from thatduring 0.8% sevoflurane, indicating a celling effect. There was no significantdifference in the convulsive threshold between sevoflurane and enflurane. The risein blood pressure became less marked when higher concentrations of sevoflurane orenflurane were administered and the blood pressure at convulsions decreasedsignificantly in 1.6% sevoflurane, and in 0.8% and 1.6% enflurane. However, therewas no significant difference in the lidocaine concentrations measured when thesystolic blood pressure became 70 mmHg. Apamin, a selective blocker ofcalcium-dependent potassium channels, was administered intracerebroventricularly inrats anesthetized with 0.8% sevoflurane to investigate the mechanism of theanticonvulsive effects. Apamin (10 ng) had a tendency to decrease the convulsivethreshold (21.6 +/- 2.2 to 19.9 +/- 2.5 mg. l(-1)) but this was not statisticallysignificant. It is suggested that sevoflurane reduces the convulsive effect oflidocaine toxicity but carries some risk due to circulatory depression.
15278670	CID	lidocaine	convulsions

17042910|t|Anti-oxidant effects of atorvastatin in dexamethasone-induced hypertension in therat.1. Dexamethasone (Dex)-induced hypertension is characterized by endothelialdysfunction associated with nitric oxide (NO) deficiency and increased superoxide(O2-) production. Atorvastatin (Ato) possesses pleiotropic properties that have beenreported to improve endothelial function through increased availability of NO andreduced O2- production in various forms of hypertension. In the present study, weinvestigated whether 50 mg/kg per day, p.o., Ato could prevent endothelial NOsynthase (eNOS) downregulation and the increase in O2- in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats,thereby reducing blood pressure. 2. Male SD rats (n = 30) were treated with Ato (50mg/kg per day in drinking water) or tap water for 15 days. Dexamethasone (10microg/kg per day, s.c.) or saline was started after 4 days in Ato-treated andnon-treated rats and continued for 11-13 days. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) wasmeasured on alternate days using the tail-cuff method. Endothelial function wasassessed by acetylcholine-induced vasorelaxation and phenylephrine-inducedvasoconstriction in aortic segments. Vascular eNOS mRNA was assessed bysemi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. 3. In ratstreated with Dex alone, SBP was increased from 109 +/- 2 to 133 +/- 2 mmHg on Days 4and Day 14, respectively (P < 0.001). In the Ato + Dex group, SBP was increasedfrom 113 +/- 2 to 119 +/- 2 mmHg on Days 4 to 14, respectively (P < 0.001), butwas significantly lower than SBP in the group treated with Dex alone (P < 0.05).Endothelial-dependent relaxation and eNOS mRNA expression were greater in the Dex +Ato group than in the Dex only group (P < 0.05 and P < 0.0001, respectively).Aortic superoxide production was lower in the Dex + Ato group compared with thegroup treated with Dex alone (P < 0.0001). 4. Treatment with Ato improvedendothelial function, reduced superoxide production and reduced SBP in Dex-treatedSD rats.
17042910	CID	dexamethasone	hypertension

11897407|t|99mTc-glucarate for detection of isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction inrats.Infarct-avid radiopharmaceuticals are necessary for rapid and timely diagnosis ofacute myocardial infarction. The animal model used to produce infarction impliesartery ligation but chemical induction can be easily obtained with isoproterenol. Anew infarct-avid radiopharmaceutical based on glucaric acid was prepared in thehospital radiopharmacy of the INCMNSZ. 99mTc-glucarate was easy to prepare, stablefor 96 h and was used to study its biodistribution in rats withisoproterenol-induced acute myocardial infarction. Histological studies demonstratedthat the rats developed an infarct 18 h after isoproterenol administration. The ratbiodistribution studies showed a rapid blood clearance via the kidneys. Thirtyminutes after 99mTc-glucarate administration the standardised heart uptake valueS(h)UV was 4.7 in infarcted rat heart which is six times more than in normal rats.ROIs drawn over the gamma camera images showed a ratio of 4.4. The high imagequality suggests that high contrast images can be obtained in humans and the 96 hstability makes it an ideal agent to detect, in patients, early cardiac infarction.
11897407	CID	isoproterenol	myocardial infarction

9812111|t|A randomized, placebo-controlled dose-comparison trial of haloperidol forpsychosis and disruptive behaviors in Alzheimer's disease.OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to compare the efficacy and side effects oftwo doses of haloperidol and placebo in the treatment of psychosis and disruptivebehaviors in patients with Alzheimer's disease. METHOD: In a 6-weekrandom-assignment, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (phase A), haloperidol,2-3 mg/day (standard dose), and haloperidol, 0.50-0.75 mg/day (low dose), werecompared in 71 outpatients with Alzheimer's disease. For the subsequent 6-weekdouble-blind crossover phase (phase B), patients taking standard- or low-dosehaloperidol were switched to placebo, and patients taking placebo were randomlyassigned to standard- or low-dose haloperidol. RESULTS: For the 60 patients whocompleted phase A, standard-dose haloperidol was efficacious and superior to bothlow-dose haloperidol and placebo for scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scalepsychosis factor and on psychomotor agitation. Response rates according to threesets of criteria were greater with the standard dose (55%-60%) than the low dose(25%-35%) and placebo (25%-30%). The advantage of standard dose over low dose wasreplicated in phase B. In phase A, extrapyramidal signs tended to be greater withthe standard dose than in the other two conditions, primarily because of a subgroup(20%) who developed moderate to severe signs. Low-dose haloperidol did not differfrom placebo on any measure of efficacy or side effects. CONCLUSIONS: The resultsindicated a favorable therapeutic profile for haloperidol in doses of 2-3 mg/day,although a subgroup developed moderate to severe extrapyramidal signs. A startingdose of 1 mg/day with gradual, upward dose titration is recommended. The narrowtherapeutic window observed with haloperidol may also apply to other neurolepticsused in Alzheimer's disease patients with psychosis and disruptive behaviors.
9812111	CID	haloperidol	extrapyramidal signs

15572383|t|Individual differences in renal ACE activity in healthy rats predictsusceptibility to adriamycin-induced renal damage.BACKGROUND: In man, differences in angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) levels,related to ACE (I/D) genotype, are associated with renal prognosis. This raises thehypothesis that individual differences in renal ACE activity are involved in renalsusceptibility to inflicted damage. Therefore, we studied the predictive effect ofrenal ACE activity for the severity of renal damage induced by a single injection ofadriamycin in rats. METHODS: Renal ACE activity (Hip-His-Leu cleavage by corticalhomogenates) was determined by renal biopsy in 27 adult male Wistar rats. After 1week of recovery, proteinuria was induced by adriamycin [1.5 mg/kg intravenously(i.v.) n = 18; controls, saline i.v. n = 9]. Proteinuria was measured every 2 weeks.After 12 weeks, rats were sacrificed and their kidneys harvested. RESULTS: Asanticipated, adriamycin elicited nephrotic range proteinuria, renal interstitialdamage and mild focal glomerulosclerosis. Baseline renal ACE positively correlatedwith the relative rise in proteinuria after adriamycin (r = 0.62, P<0.01), renalinterstitial alpha-smooth muscle actin (r = 0.49, P<0.05), interstitialmacrophage influx (r = 0.56, P<0.05), interstitial collagen III (r = 0.53,P<0.05), glomerular alpha-smooth muscle actin (r = 0.74, P<0.01) andglomerular desmin (r = 0.48, P<0.05). Baseline renal ACE did not correlate withfocal glomerulosclerosis (r = 0.22, NS). In controls, no predictive values for renalparameters were observed. CONCLUSION: Individual differences in renal ACE activitypredict the severity of adriamycin-induced renal damage in this outbred rat strain.This supports the assumption that differences in renal ACE activity predispose to aless favourable course of renal damage.
15572383	CID	adriamycin	proteinuria

7420681|t|Clinical nephrotoxicity of tobramycin and gentamicin. A prospective study.Nearly 3.2 million people in this country receive aminoglycoside antibioticsannually. Gentamicin sulfate and tobramycin sulfate continue to demonstrateototoxicity and nephrotoxicity in both animal and clinical studies. In this study,62 patients with confirmed initial normal renal function and treated with 2 to 5mg/kg/day of gentamicin sulfate or tobramycin sulfate for a minimum of seven dayswere followed up prospectively for the development of aminoglycoside-related renalfailure, defined as at least a one-third reduction in renal function. In these 62patients, no other causes for renal failure could be identified. Five of 33 (15%) ofthe tobramycin-treated patients and 16 of 29 (55.2%) of the gentamicin-treatedpatients had renal failure. Thus, gentamicin was associated with renal failure morethan three times as often as was tobramycin.
7420681	CID	gentamicin	renal failure
7420681	CID	tobramycin	renal failure

12907309|t|Neuroprotective action of MPEP, a selective mGluR5 antagonist, inmethamphetamine-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity is associated with a decrease indopamine outflow and inhibition of hyperthermia in rats.The aim of this study was to examine the role of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5(mGluR5) in the toxic action of methamphetamine on dopaminergic neurones in rats.Methamphetamine (10 mg/kg sc), administered five times, reduced the levels ofdopamine and its metabolites in striatal tissue when measured 72 h after the lastinjection. A selective antagonist of mGluR5, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine(MPEP; 5 mg/kg ip), when administered five times immediately before eachmethamphetamine injection reversed the above-mentioned methamphetamine effects. Asingle MPEP (5 mg/kg ip) injection reduced the basal extracellular dopamine level inthe striatum, as well as dopamine release stimulated either by methamphetamine (10mg/kg sc) or by intrastriatally administered veratridine (100 microM). Moreover, ittransiently diminished the methamphetamine (10 mg/kg sc)-induced hyperthermia andreduced basal body temperature. MPEP administered into the striatum at highconcentrations (500 microM) increased extracellular dopamine levels, while lowerconcentrations (50-100 microM) were devoid of any effect. The results of this studysuggest that the blockade of mGluR5 by MPEP may protect dopaminergic neuronesagainst methamphetamine-induced toxicity. Neuroprotection rendered by MPEP may beassociated with the reduction of the methamphetamine-induced dopamine efflux in thestriatum due to the blockade of extrastriatal mGluR5, and with a decrease inhyperthermia.
12907309	CID	methamphetamine	hyperthermia

16680561|t|Pharmacokinetics of desipramine HCl when administered with cinacalcet HCl.OBJECTIVE: In vitro work has demonstrated that cinacalcet is a strong inhibitor ofcytochrome P450 isoenzyme (CYP) 2D6. The purpose of this study was to evaluate theeffect of cinacalcet on CYP2D6 activity, using desipramine as a probe substrate, inhealthy subjects. METHODS: Seventeen subjects who were genotyped as CYP2D6 extensivemetabolizers were enrolled in this randomized, open-label, crossover study toreceive a single oral dose of desipramine (50 mg) on two separate occasions, oncealone and once after multiple doses of cinacalcet (90 mg for 7 days). Blood sampleswere obtained predose and up to 72 h postdose. RESULTS: Fourteen subjects completedboth treatment arms. Relative to desipramine alone, mean AUC and C(max) ofdesipramine increased 3.6- and 1.8-fold when coadministered with cinacalcet. The t(1/2,z) of desipramine was longer when desipramine was coadministered withcinacalcet (21.0 versus 43.3 hs). The t (max) was similar between the regimens.Fewer subjects reported adverse events following treatment with desipramine alonethan when receiving desipramine with cinacalcet (33 versus 86%), the most frequentof which (nausea and headache) have been reported for patients treated with eitherdesipramine or cinacalcet. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that cinacalcet is astrong inhibitor of CYP2D6. These data suggest that during concomitant treatmentwith cinacalcet, dose adjustment may be necessary for drugs that demonstrate anarrow therapeutic index and are metabolized by CYP2D6.
16680561	CID	desipramine HCl	nausea
16680561	CID	cinacalcet HCl	headache
16680561	CID	desipramine HCl	headache
16680561	CID	cinacalcet HCl	nausea

17532790|t|Proteomic analysis of striatal proteins in the rat model of L-DOPA-induceddyskinesia.L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) is among the motor complications that arise inParkinson's disease (PD) patients after a prolonged treatment with L-DOPA. Tothis day, transcriptome analysis has been performed in a rat model of LID[Neurobiol. Dis., 17 (2004), 219] but information regarding the proteome is stilllacking. In the present study, we investigated the changes occurring at the proteinlevel in striatal samples obtained from the unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesionrat model of PD treated with saline, L-DOPA or bromocriptine using two-dimensionaldifference gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry (MS). Rats treated with L-DOPAwere allocated to two groups based on the presence or absence of LID. Among the 2000spots compared for statistical difference, 67 spots were significantly changed inabundance and identified using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionizationtime-of-flight MS, atmospheric pressure matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionizationand HPLC coupled tandem MS (LC/MS/MS). Out of these 67 proteins, LID significantlychanged the expression level of five proteins: alphabeta-crystalin, gamma-enolase,guanidoacetate methyltransferase, vinculin, and proteasome alpha-2 subunit.Complementary techniques such as western immunoblotting and immunohistochemistrywere performed to investigate the validity of the data obtained using the proteomicapproach. In conclusion, this study provides new insights into the protein changesoccurring in LID.
17532790	CID	L-DOPA	dyskinesia

7582165|t|Pseudo-allergic reactions to corticosteroids: diagnosis and alternatives.Two patients treated with parenteral paramethasone (Triniol) and dexamethasone(Sedionbel) are described. A few minutes after administration of the drugs, theypresented urticaria (patients 1 and 2) and conjunctivitis (patient 1). The purposeof our study was to determine the cause of the patients' reactions, theimmunological mechanisms involved and whether these patients would be able totolerate any kind of corticoid. Clinical examinations and skin, oral and parenteralchallenges with different corticosteroids and ELISA tests were performed. In the twopatients, skin and ELISA tests with paramethasone were negative, as was the pricktest with each of its excipients. A single-blind parenteral challenge with Triniolwas positive in both patients after the administration of 1 ml of the drug, andnegative with its excipients. We also carried out oral and parenteral challengeswith other corticosteroids and found intolerance to some of them. These resultssuggest that paramethasone caused pseudoallergic reactions in our patients.Corticosteroids different from paramethasone also produced hypersensitivityreactions in these patients; however, a few of them were tolerated. The basicmechanisms of those reactions are not yet fully understood. To our knowledge, thisis the first report of a pseudo-allergy caused by paramethasone.
7582165	CID	paramethasone	urticaria
7582165	CID	dexamethasone	conjunctivitis
7582165	CID	dexamethasone	urticaria
7582165	CID	paramethasone	conjunctivitis

16787750|t|Valproic acid induced encephalopathy--19 new cases in Germany from 1994 to 2003--aside effect associated to VPA-therapy not only in young children.Valproic acid (VPA) is a broad-spectrum antiepileptic drug and is usuallywell-tolerated. Rare serious complications may occur in some patients, includinghaemorrhagic pancreatitis, bone marrow suppression, VPA-induced hepatotoxicity andVPA-induced encephalopathy. The typical signs of VPA-induced encephalopathy areimpaired consciousness, sometimes marked EEG background slowing, increased seizurefrequency, with or without hyperammonemia. There is still no proof of causativeeffect of VPA in patients with encephalopathy, but only of an association with anassumed causal relation. We report 19 patients with VPA-associated encephalopathy inGermany from the years 1994 to 2003, none of whom had been published previously.
16787750	CID	Valproic acid	bone marrow suppression
16787750	CID	Valproic acid	pancreatitis
16787750	CID	Valproic acid	encephalopathy
16787750	CID	Valproic acid	hepatotoxicity
16787750	CID	Valproic acid	impaired consciousness

3173180|t|Haemolytic-uraemic syndrome after treatment with metronidazole.This paper describes the clinical features of six children who developed thehaemolytic-uraemic syndrome after treatment with metronidazole. These children wereolder and were more likely to have undergone recent bowel surgery than are otherchildren with this condition. While the involvement of metronidazole in theaetiology of the haemolytic-uraemic syndrome is not established firmly, the actionof this drug in sensitizing tissues to oxidation injury and the reported evidence ofoxidation changes in the haemolytic-uraemic syndrome suggest a possible link betweenmetronidazole treatment and some cases of the haemolytic-uraemic syndrome.
3173180	CID	metronidazole	Haemolytic-uraemic syndrome

8996652|t|Risk factors of sensorineural hearing loss in preterm infants.Among 547 preterm infants of < or = 34 weeks gestation born between 1987 and1991, 8 children (1.46%) developed severe progressive and bilateral sensorineuralhearing loss. Perinatal risk factors of infants with hearing loss were compared withthose of two control groups matched for gestation and birth weight and for perinatalcomplications. Our observations demonstrated an association of hearing loss with ahigher incidence of perinatal complications. Ototoxicity appeared closely related toa prolonged administration and higher total dose of ototoxic drugs, particularlyaminoglycosides and furosemide. Finally, we strongly recommend to prospectively andregularly perform audiologic assessment in sick preterm children as hearing loss isof delayed onset and in most cases bilateral and severe.
8996652	CID	aminoglycosides	sensorineural hearing loss
8996652	CID	furosemide	sensorineural hearing loss

84204|t|Pharmacokinetic and clinical studies in patients with cimetidine-associated mentalconfusion.15 cases of cimetidine-associated mental confusion have been reported. In orderthat this syndrome might be investigated changes in mental status (M.S.) werecorrelated with serum concentrations and renal and hepatic function in 36 patients,30 patients had no M.S. change on cimetidine and 6 had moderate to severe changes.These 6 patients had both renal and liver dysfunction (P less than 0.05), as well ascimetidine trough-concentrations of more than 1.25 microgram/ml (P less than 0.05).The severity of M.S. changes increased as trough-concentrations rose, 5 patients hadlumbar puncture. The cerebrospinal fluid: serum ratio of cimetidine concentrationswas 0.24:1 and indicates that cimetidine passes the blood-brain barrier; it alsoraises the possibility that M.S. changes are due to blockade of histamineH2-receptors in the central nervous system. Patients likely to have both raisedtrough-concentrations and mental confusion are those with both severe renal andhepatic dysfunction. They should be closely observed and should be given reduceddoses of cimetidine.
84204	CID	cimetidine	confusion

9862868|t|Different lobular distributions of altered hepatocyte tight junctions in ratmodels of intrahepatic and extrahepatic cholestasis.Hepatocyte tight junctions (TJs), the only intercellular barrier between thesinusoidal and the canalicular spaces, play a key role in bile formation. Althoughhepatocyte TJs are impaired in cholestasis, attempts to localize the precise site ofhepatocyte TJ damage by freeze-fracture electron microscopy have produced limitedinformation. Recently, several TJ-associated proteins like ZO-1 and 7H6 have beenidentified and characterized. Immunolocalization of 7H6 appears to closely correlatewith paracellular permeability. We used rat models of intrahepatic cholestasis byethinyl estradiol (EE) treatment and extrahepatic cholestasis by bile duct ligation(BDL) to precisely determine the site of TJ damage. Alterations in hepatocyte TJswere assessed by double-immunolabeling for 7H6 and ZO-1 using a confocal laserscanning microscope. In control rats, immunostaining for 7H6 and ZO-1 colocalized tooutline bile canaliculi in a continuous fashion. In contrast, 7H6 and ZO-1immunostaining was more discontinuous, outlining the bile canaliculi after BDL.Immunostaining for 7H6, not ZO-1, decreased and predominantly appeared as discretesignals in the submembranous cytoplasm of periportal hepatocytes after BDL. After EEtreatment, changes in immunostaining for 7H6 and ZO-1 were similar to those seen inperiportal hepatocytes after BDL, but distributed more diffusely throughout thelobule. This study is the first to demonstrate that impairment of hepatocyte TJsoccurs heterogenously in the liver lobule after BDL and suggests that BDL and EEtreatments produce different lobular distributions of increased paracellularpermeability.
9862868	CID	ethinyl estradiol	intrahepatic cholestasis

15515654|t|Long term audiological evaluation of beta-thalassemic patients.OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to identify the incidence and tomonitor the progression of hearing loss in children and young adults withbeta-thalassemia major. METHODS: One hundred and four (104) patients aged 6-35 years(mean 17,2 years) participated in the study. All patients were on a regulartransfusion-chelation program maintaining a mean hemoglobin level of 9.5 gr/dl.Subjects were receiving desferrioxamine (DFO) chelation treatment with a mean dailydose of 50-60 mg/kg, 5-6 days a week during the first six years of the study, whichwas then reduced to 40-50 mg/kg for the following eight years. Patients werefollowed for 8-14 years. RESULTS: Overall, 21 out of 104 patients (20.2%) presentedwith high frequency sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL), either unilateral orbilateral. No ototoxic factor, other than DFO, was present in any of the patients.Patients with SNHL presented with relatively lower serum ferritin levels than thosewith normal hearing, however, no statistically significant difference was observed.Subjects with SNHL were submitted to DFO reduction or temporary withdrawal.Following intervention, 7 out of 21 affected patients recovered, 10 remained stableand 4 demonstrated aggravation. CONCLUSION: The findings are indicative ofDFO's contributing role in the development of hearing impairment. Regularaudiologic evaluation is imperative in all thalassemic patients so that earlychanges may be recognized and treatment may be judiciously adjusted in order toprevent or reverse hearing impairment.
15515654	CID	desferrioxamine	sensorineural hearing loss

2024540|t|Design and analysis of the HYPREN-trial: safety of enalapril and prazosin in theinitial treatment phase of patients with congestive heart failure.Since the introduction of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors into theadjunctive treatment of patients with congestive heart failure, cases of severehypotension, especially on the first day of treatment, have occasionally beenreported. To assess the safety of the ACE inhibitor enalapril a multicenter,randomized, prazosin-controlled trial was designed that compared the incidence andseverity of symptomatic hypotension on the first day of treatment. Trial medicationwas 2.5 mg enalapril or 0.5 prazosin. Subjects were 1210 inpatients with New YorkHeart Association (NYHA) functional class II and III. Patients who receivedenalapril experienced clinically and statistically significantly less symptomatichypotension (5.2%) than the patients who received prazosin (12.9%). All patientsrecovered. It was concluded that treatment with enalapril was well tolerated and itis, therefore, unreasonable to restrict the initiation of treatment with enalaprilto inpatients.
2024540	CID	angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors	hypotension
2024540	CID	prazosin	hypotension

12090760|t|Antagonism between interleukin 3 and erythropoietin in mice withazidothymidine-induced anemia and in bone marrow endothelial cells.Azidothymidine (AZT)-induced anemia in mice can be reversed by the administrationof IGF-IL-3 (fusion protein of insulin-like growth factor II (IGF II) andinterleukin 3). Although interleukin 3 (IL-3) and erythropoietin (EPO) are known toact synergistically on hematopoietic cell proliferation in vitro, injection ofIGF-IL-3 and EPO in AZT-treated mice resulted in a reduction of red cells and anincrease of plasma EPO levels as compared to animals treated with IGF-IL-3 or EPOalone. We tested the hypothesis that the antagonistic effect of IL-3 and EPO onerythroid cells may be mediated by endothelial cells. Bovine liver erythroid cellswere cultured on monolayers of human bone marrow endothelial cells previouslytreated with EPO and IGF-IL-3. There was a significant reduction of thymidineincorporation into both erythroid and endothelial cells in cultures pre-treated withIGF-IL-3 and EPO. Endothelial cell culture supernatants separated by ultrafiltrationand ultracentrifugation from cells treated with EPO and IL-3 significantly reducedthymidine incorporation into erythroid cells as compared to identical fractionsobtained from the media of cells cultured with EPO alone. These results suggest thatendothelial cells treated simultaneously with EPO and IL-3 have a negative effect onerythroid cell production.
12090760	CID	azidothymidine	anemia

7516729|t|Interactive effects of variations in [Na]o and [Ca]o on rat atrial spontaneousfrequency.The effects of varying the extracellular concentrations of Na and Ca ([Na]o and[Ca]o) on both, the spontaneous beating and the negative chronotropic action ofverapamil, were studied in the isolated rat atria. Basal frequency (BF) evaluated bysurface electrogram was 223 +/- 4 beats/min. in control Krebs-Ringer containing 137mM Na and 1.35 mM Ca (N). It decreased by 16 +/- 3% by lowering [Na]o to 78 mM(LNa), 23 +/- 2% by lowering simultaneously [Na]o to 78 mM and [Ca]o to 0.675 mM(LNa+LCa) and 31 +/- 5% by lowering [Na]o to 78 mM plus increasing [Ca]o to 3.6 mM(LNa+HCa). At normal [Na]o, decrease (0.675 mM) or increase (3.6 mM) of [Ca]o didnot modify BF; a reduction of ten times (0.135 mM of normal [Ca]o was effective toreduce BF by 40 +/- 13%. All negative chronotropic effects were BF-dependent.Dose-dependent bradycardia induced by verapamil was potentiated by LNa, LCa, andHCa. Independent but not additive effects of Na and Ca are shown by decreases in thevalues of [verapamil]o needed to reduce BF by 30% (IC30) with the following order ofinhibitory potency: LNa > LCa > HCa > N, resulting LNa+HCa similar to LNa.The [verapamil]o that arrested atrial beating (AC) was also potentiated with theorder LNa = LNa+LCa = LNa+HCa = LCa > HCa = N. The results indicate that ratatrial spontaneous beating is more dependent on [Na]o than on [Ca]o in a range of+/- 50% of their normal concentration. Also the enhancement of verapamil effects onatrial beating was more pronounced at LNa than at LCa.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250WORDS)
7516729	CID	verapamil	bradycardia

2802551|t|Sodium status influences chronic amphotericin B nephrotoxicity in rats.The nephrotoxic potential of amphotericin B (5 mg/kg per day intraperitoneally for3 weeks) has been investigated in salt-depleted, normal-salt, and salt-loaded rats.In salt-depleted rats, amphotericin B decreased creatinine clearance linearly withtime, with an 85% reduction by week 3. In contrast, in normal-salt rats creatinineclearance was decreased but to a lesser extent at week 2 and 3, and in salt-loadedrats creatinine clearance did not change for 2 weeks and was decreased by 43% atweek 3. All rats in the sodium-depleted group had histopathological evidence ofpatchy tubular cytoplasmic degeneration in tubules that was not observed in anynormal-salt or salt-loaded rat. Concentrations of amphotericin B in plasma were notsignificantly different among the three groups at any time during the study.However, at the end of 3 weeks, amphotericin B levels in the kidneys and liver weresignificantly higher in salt-depleted and normal-salt rats than those in salt-loadedrats, with plasma/kidney ratios of 21, 14, and 8 in salt-depleted, normal-salt, andsalt-loaded rats, respectively. In conclusion, reductions in creatinine clearanceand renal amphotericin B accumulation after chronic amphotericin B administrationwere enhanced by salt depletion and attenuated by sodium loading in rats.
2802551	CID	amphotericin B	nephrotoxicity

19346865|t|Reversible inferior colliculus lesion in metronidazole-induced encephalopathy:magnetic resonance findings on diffusion-weighted and fluid attenuated inversionrecovery imaging.OBJECTIVE: This is to present reversible inferior colliculus lesions inmetronidazole-induced encephalopathy, to focus on the diffusion-weighted imaging(DWI) and fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) imaging. MATERIALS ANDMETHODS: From November 2005 to September 2007, 8 patients (5 men and 3 women) werediagnosed as having metronidazole-induced encephalopathy (age range; 43-78 years).They had been taking metronidazole (total dosage, 45-120 g; duration, 30 days to 2months) to treat the infection in various organs. Initial brain magnetic resonanceimaging (MRI) were obtained after the hospitalization, including DWI (8/8), apparentdiffusion coefficient (ADC) map (4/8), FLAIR (7/8), and T2-weighted image (8/8).Follow-up MRIs were performed on 5 patients from third to 14th days afterdiscontinuation of metronidazole administration. Findings of initial and follow-upMRIs were retrospectively evaluated by 2 neuroradiologists by consensus, to analyzethe presence of abnormal signal intensities, their locations, and signal changes onfollow-up images. RESULTS: Initial MRIs showed abnormal high signal intensities onDWI and FLAIR (or T2-weighted image) at the dentate nucleus (8/8), inferiorcolliculus (6/8), corpus callosum (2/8), pons (2/8), medulla (1/8), and bilateralcerebral white matter (1/8). High-signal intensity lesions on DWI tended to show lowsignal intensity on ADC map (3/4), but in one patient, high signal intensity wasshown at bilateral dentate nuclei on not only DWI but also ADC map. All the lesionsin dentate, inferior colliculus, pons, and medullas had been resolved completely onfollow-up MRIs in 5 patients, but in 1 patient of them, corpus callosal lesionpersisted. CONCLUSIONS: Reversible inferior colliculus lesions could be consideredas the characteristic for metronidazole-induced encephalopathy, next to the dentatenucleus involvement.
19346865	CID	metronidazole	inferior colliculus lesion

2334618|t|Comparison of the respiratory effects of i.v. infusions of morphine and regionalanalgesia by extradural block.The incidence of postoperative respiratory apnoea was compared between fivepatients receiving a continuous i.v. infusion of morphine (mean 73.6 mg) and fivepatients receiving a continuous extradural infusion of 0.25% bupivacaine (mean 192mg) in the 24-h period following upper abdominal surgery. Monitoring consisted ofairflow detection by a carbon dioxide analyser, chest wall movement detected bypneumatic capsules, and continuous electrocardiograph recorded with a Holterambulatory monitor. Both obstructive (P less than 0.05) and central apnoea (P lessthan 0.05) occurred more frequently in patients who had a morphine infusion. Therewas also a higher incidence of tachyarrhythmias (P less than 0.05) and ventricularectopic beats (P less than 0.05) in the morphine infusion group.
2334618	CID	morphine	central apnoea
2334618	CID	morphine	obstructive (P less than 0.05) apnoea
2334618	CID	morphine	ventricular ectopic beats

8864707|t|Magnetic resonance volumetry of the cerebellum in epileptic patients afterphenytoin overdosages.The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between phenytoinmedication and cerebellar atrophy in patients who had experienced clinicalintoxication. Five females and 6 males, 21-59 years of age, were examined with a1.5-T whole-body system using a circular polarized head coil. Conventional spin echoimages were acquired in the sagittal and transverse orientation. In addition, weperformed a high-resolution 3D gradient echo, T1-weighted sequences at a 1-mm slicethickness. The images were subsequently processed to obtain volumetric data for thecerebellum. Cerebellar volume for the patient group ranged between 67.66 and 131.08ml (mean 108.9 ml). In addition 3D gradient echo data sets from 10 healthy male and10 healthy female age-matched volunteers were used to compare cerebellar volumes.Using linear regression we found that no correlation exists between seizureduration, elevation of phenytoin serum levels and cerebellar volume. However,multiple regression for the daily dosage, duration of phenytoin treatment andcerebellar volume revealed a correlation of these parameters. We conclude thatphenytoin overdosage does not necessarily result in cerebellar atrophy and it isunlikely that phenytoin medication was the only cause of cerebellar atrophy in theremaining patients. Quantitative morphometric studies of the cerebellum providevaluable insights into the pathogenesis of cerebellar disorders.
8864707	CID	phenytoin	overdosages

12589964|t|Evaluation of cardiac troponin I and T levels as markers of myocardial damage indoxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy rats, and their relationship withechocardiographic and histological findings.BACKGROUND: Cardiac troponins I (cTnI) and T (cTnT) have been shown to be highlysensitive and specific markers of myocardial cell injury. We investigated thediagnostic value of cTnI and cTnT for the diagnosis of myocardial damage in a ratmodel of doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiomyopathy, and we examined the relationshipbetween serial cTnI and cTnT with the development of cardiac disorders monitored byechocardiography and histological examinations in this model. METHODS: Thirty-fiveWistar rats were given 1.5 mg/kg DOX, i.v., weekly for up to 8 weeks for a totalcumulative dose of 12 mg/kg BW. Ten rats received saline as a control group. cTnIwas measured with Access(R) (ng/ml) and a research immunoassay (pg/ml), and comparedwith cTnT, CK-MB mass and CK. By using transthoracic echocardiography, anterior andposterior wall thickness, LV diameters and LV fractional shortening (FS) weremeasured in all rats before DOX or saline, and at weeks 6 and 9 after treatment inall surviving rats. Histology was performed in DOX-rats at 6 and 9 weeks after thelast DOX dose and in all controls. RESULTS: Eighteen of the DOX rats diedprematurely of general toxicity during the 9-week period. End-diastolic (ED) andend-systolic (ES) LV diameters/BW significantly increased, whereas LV FS wasdecreased after 9 weeks in the DOX group (p<0.001). These parameters remainedunchanged in controls. Histological evaluation of hearts from all rats given DOXrevealed significant slight degrees of perivascular and interstitial fibrosis. In 7of the 18 rats, degeneration and myocyte vacuolisation were found. Only five of thecontrols exhibited evidence of very slight perivascular fibrosis. A significant risein cTnT was found in DOX rats after cumulative doses of 7.5 and 12 mg/kg incomparison with baseline (p<0.05). cTnT found in rats after 12 mg/kg weresignificantly greater than that found after 7.5 mg/kg DOX. Maximal cTnI (pg/ml) andcTnT levels were significantly increased in DOX rats compared with controls(p=0.006, 0.007). cTnI (ng/ml), CK-MB mass and CK remained unchanged in DOX ratscompared with controls. All markers remained stable in controls. Analysis of datarevealed a significant correlation between maximal cTnT and ED and ES LVdiameters/BW (r=0.81 and 0.65; p<0.0001). A significant relationship was observedbetween maximal cTnT and the extent of myocardial morphological changes, and betweenLV diameters/BW and histological findings. CONCLUSIONS: Among markers of ischemicinjury after DOX in rats, cTnT showed the greatest ability to detect myocardialdamage assessed by echocardiographic detection and histological changes. Althoughthere was a discrepancy between the amount of cTnI and cTnT after DOX, probably dueto heterogeneity in cross-reactivities of mAbs to various cTnI and cTnT forms, it islikely that cTnT in rats after DOX indicates cell damage determined by the magnitudeof injury induced and that cTnT should be a useful marker for the prediction ofexperimentally induced cardiotoxicity and possibly for cardioprotective experiments.
12589964	CID	doxorubicin	myocardial damage

11263551|t|Calcineurin-inhibitor induced pain syndrome (CIPS): a severe disablingcomplication after organ transplantation.Bone pain after transplantation is a frequent complication that can be caused byseveral diseases. Treatment strategies depend on the correct diagnosis of the pain.Nine patients with severe pain in their feet, which was registered aftertransplantation, were investigated. Bone scans showed an increased tracer uptake ofthe foot bones. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated bone marrow oedema in thepainful bones. Pain was not explained by other diseases causing foot pain, likereflex sympathetic dystrophy, polyneuropathy, Morton's neuralgia, gout,osteoporosis, avascular necrosis, intermittent claudication, orthopaedic footdeformities, stress fractures, and hyperparathyroidism. The reduction ofcyclosporine- or tacrolimus trough levels and the administration of calcium channelblockers led to relief of pain. The Calcineurin-inhibitor Induced Pain Syndrome(CIPS) is a rare but severe side effect of cyclosporine or tacrolimus and isaccurately diagnosed by its typical presentation, magnetic resonance imaging andbone scans. Incorrect diagnosis of the syndrome will lead to a significant reductionof life quality in patients suffering from CIPS.
11263551	CID	tacrolimus	pain
11263551	CID	tacrolimus	oedema
11263551	CID	tacrolimus	bone marrow
11263551	CID	cyclosporine	bone marrow
11263551	CID	cyclosporine	oedema
11263551	CID	cyclosporine	pain

10520387|t|The haemodynamic effects of propofol in combination with ephedrine in elderlypatients (ASA groups 3 and 4).The marked vasodilator and negative inotropic effects of propofol aredisadvantages in frail elderly patients. We investigated the safety and efficacy ofadding different doses of ephedrine to propofol in order to obtund the hypotensiveresponse. The haemodynamic effects of adding 15, 20 or 25 mg of ephedrine to 200 mgof propofol were compared to control in 40 ASA 3/4 patients over 60 years presentingfor genito-urinary surgery. The addition of ephedrine to propofol appears to be aneffective method of obtunding the hypotensive response to propofol at all doses usedin this study. However, marked tachycardia associated with the use of ephedrine incombination with propofol occurred in the majority of patients, occasionallyreaching high levels in individual patients. Due to the risk of this tachycardiainducing myocardial ischemia, we would not recommend the use in elderly patients ofany of the ephedrine/propofol/mixtures studied.
10520387	CID	propofol	hypotensive
10520387	CID	propofol	tachycardia
10520387	CID	ephedrine	tachycardia

230316|t|Neurotoxicity of halogenated hydroxyquinolines: clinical analysis of casesreported outside Japan.An analysis is presented of 220 cases of possible neurotoxic reactions tohalogenated hydroxyquinolines reported from outside Japan. In 80 cases insufficientinformation was available for adequate comment and in 29 a relationship to theadministration of clioquinol could be excluded. Of the remainder, a relationship toclioquinol was considered probable in 42 and possible in 69 cases. In six of theprobable cases the neurological disturbance consisted of an acute reversibleencephalopathy usually related to the ingestion of a high dose of clioquinol over ashort period. The most common manifestation, observed in 15 further cases, wasisolated optic atrophy. This was most frequently found in children, many of whom hadreceived clioquinol as treatment for acrodermatitis enteropathica. In the remainingcases, a combination of myelopathy, visual disturbance, and peripheral neuropathywas the most common manifestation. Isolated myelopathy or peripheral neuropathy, orthese manifestations occurring together, were infrequent. The onset of allmanifestations (except toxic encephalopathy) was usually subacute, with subsequentpartial recovery. Older subjects tended to display more side effects. The fullsyndrome of subacute myelo-optic neuropathy was more frequent in women, but theytended to have taken greater quantities of the drug.
230316	CID	clioquinol	encephalopathy
230316	CID	clioquinol	visual disturbance
230316	CID	clioquinol	peripheral neuropathy
230316	CID	clioquinol	optic atrophy
230316	CID	clioquinol	myelopathy

11807648|t|Epileptic seizures following cortical application of fibrin sealants containingtranexamic acid in rats.BACKGROUND: Fibrin sealants (FS) derived from human plasma are frequently used inneurosurgery. In order to increase clot stability, FS typically contain aprotinin, anatural fibrinolysis inhibitor. Recently, synthetic fibrinolysis inhibitors such astranexamic acid (tAMCA) have been considered as substitutes for aprotinin. However,tAMCA has been shown to cause epileptic seizures. We wanted to study whether tAMCAretains its convulsive action if incorporated into a FS. METHOD: FS containingaprotinin or different concentrations of tAMCA (0.5-47.5 mg/ml) were applied to thepial surface of the cortex of anaesthetized rats. The response of the animals wasevaluated using electroencephalography and by monitoring the clinical behaviourduring and after recovery from anaesthesia. FINDINGS: FS containing tAMCA causedparoxysmal brain activity which was associated with distinct convulsive behaviours.The degree of these seizures increased with increasing concentration of tAMCA. Thus,FS containing 47.5 mg/ml tAMCA evoked generalized seizures in all tested rats (n=6)while the lowest concentration of tAMCA (0.5 mg/ml) only evoked brief episodes ofjerk-correlated convulsive potentials in 1 of 6 rats. In contrast, FS containingaprotinin did not evoke any paroxysmal activity. INTERPRETATION: Tranexamic acidretains its convulsive action within FS. Thus, use of FS containing tAMCA forsurgery within or close to the CNS may pose a substantial risk to the patient.
11807648	CID	tranexamic acid	convulsive

14596845|t|A diet promoting sugar dependency causes behavioral cross-sensitization to a lowdose of amphetamine.Previous research in this laboratory has shown that a diet of intermittentexcessive sugar consumption produces a state with neurochemical and behavioralsimilarities to drug dependency. The present study examined whether female rats onvarious regimens of sugar access would show behavioral cross-sensitization to a lowdose of amphetamine. After a 30-min baseline measure of locomotor activity (day 0),animals were maintained on a cyclic diet of 12-h deprivation followed by 12-h accessto 10% sucrose solution and chow pellets (12 h access starting 4 h after onset ofthe dark period) for 21 days. Locomotor activity was measured again for 30 min atthe beginning of days 1 and 21 of sugar access. Beginning on day 22, all rats weremaintained on ad libitum chow. Nine days later locomotor activity was measured inresponse to a single low dose of amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg). The animals that hadexperienced cyclic sucrose and chow were hyperactive in response to amphetaminecompared with four control groups (ad libitum 10% sucrose and chow followed byamphetamine injection, cyclic chow followed by amphetamine injection, ad libitumchow with amphetamine, or cyclic 10% sucrose and chow with a saline injection).These results suggest that a diet comprised of alternating deprivation and access toa sugar solution and chow produces bingeing on sugar that leads to a long lastingstate of increased sensitivity to amphetamine, possibly due to a lasting alterationin the dopamine system.
14596845	CID	sucrose	behavioral cross-sensitization
14596845	CID	amphetamine	behavioral cross-sensitization

6666578|t|D-penicillamine-induced angiopathy in rats. The effect of high doseD-penicillamine treatment on aortic permeability to albumin and on theultrastructure of the vessel.Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with D-penicillamine (D-pen) 500 mg/kg/dayfor 10 or 42 days. Pair fed rats served as controls. Changes in aortic morphologywere examined by light- and transmission-electron microscopy (TEM). In addition, theendothelial permeability and the penetration through the aortic wall of albumin werestudied 10 minutes, 24 and 48 hours after i. v. injection of human serum131I-albumin (131I-HSA). TEM revealed extensive elastolysis in the arterial wall ofD-pen-treated rats, consistent with an inhibitory effect on crosslink formation. Inexperimental animals excess deposition of collagen and glycoaminoglycans wasobserved in the subendothelial and medial layer of the aortic wall, together withprominent basal membrane substance around aortic smooth muscle cells. Theaorta/serum-ratio and the radioactive build-up 24 and 48 hours after injection of131I-HSA was reduced in animals treated with D-pen for 42 days, indicating animpeded transmural transport of tracer which may be caused by a steric exclusioneffect of abundant hyaluronate. The endothelial ultrastructure was unaffected byD-pen, and no differences in aortic 131I-HSA radioactivity or aorta/serum-ratio wererecorded between experimental and control groups 10 minutes after tracer injection,indicating that the permeability of the endothelial barrier to albumin remainedunaffected by D-pen treatment. These observations support the hypothesis thattreatment with high doses of D-pen may induce a fibroproliferative response in rataorta, possibly by an inhibitory effect on the cross-linking of collagen andelastin.
6666578	CID	D-penicillamine	angiopathy

11279304|t|Brain natriuretic peptide is a predictor of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.Anthracyclines are effective antineoplastic drugs, but they frequently causedose-related cardiotoxicity. The cardiotoxicity of conventional anthracyclinetherapy highlights a need to search for methods that are highly sensitive andcapable of predicting cardiac dysfunction. We measured the plasma level of brainnatriuretic peptide (BNP) to determine whether BNP might serve as a simplediagnostic indicator of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity in patients with acuteleukemia treated with a daunorubicin (DNR)-containing regimen. Thirteen patientswith acute leukemia were treated with a DNR-containing regimen. Cardiac functionswere evaluated with radionuclide angiography before chemotherapies. The plasmalevels of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and BNP were measured at the time ofradionuclide angiography. Three patients developed congestive heart failure afterthe completion of chemotherapy. Five patients were diagnosed as having subclinicalheart failure after the completion of chemotherapy. The plasma levels of BNP in allthe patients with clinical and subclinical heart failure increased above the normallimit (40 pg/ml) before the detection of clinical or subclinical heart failure byradionuclide angiography. On the other hand, BNP did not increase in the patientswithout heart failure given DNR, even at more than 700 mg/m(2). The plasma level ofANP did not always increase in all the patients with clinical and subclinical heartfailure. These preliminary results suggest that BNP may be useful as an early andsensitive indicator of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.
11279304	CID	daunorubicin	congestive heart failure

19884587|t|Antibacterial medication use during pregnancy and risk of birth defects: NationalBirth Defects Prevention Study.OBJECTIVE: To estimate the association between antibacterial medications andselected birth defects. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Population-based,multisite, case-control study of women who had pregnancies affected by 1 of morethan 30 eligible major birth defects identified via birth defect surveillanceprograms in 10 states (n = 13 155) and control women randomly selected from the samegeographical regions (n = 4941). MAIN EXPOSURE: Reported maternal use ofantibacterials (1 month before pregnancy through the end of the first trimester).MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Odds ratios (ORs) measuring the association betweenantibacterial use and selected birth defects adjusted for potential confounders.RESULTS: The reported use of antibacterials increased during pregnancy, peakingduring the third month. Sulfonamides were associated with anencephaly (adjusted OR[AOR] = 3.4; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.3-8.8), hypoplastic left heart syndrome(AOR = 3.2; 95% CI, 1.3-7.6), coarctation of the aorta (AOR = 2.7; 95% CI, 1.3-5.6),choanal atresia (AOR = 8.0; 95% CI, 2.7-23.5), transverse limb deficiency (AOR =2.5; 95% CI, 1.0-5.9), and diaphragmatic hernia (AOR = 2.4; 95% CI, 1.1-5.4).Nitrofurantoins were associated with anophthalmia or microphthalmos (AOR = 3.7; 95%CI, 1.1-12.2), hypoplastic left heart syndrome (AOR = 4.2; 95% CI, 1.9-9.1), atrialseptal defects (AOR = 1.9; 95% CI, 1.1-3.4), and cleft lip with cleft palate (AOR =2.1; 95% CI, 1.2-3.9). Other antibacterial agents that showed associations includederythromycins (2 defects), penicillins (1 defect), cephalosporins (1 defect), andquinolones (1 defect). CONCLUSIONS: Reassuringly, penicillins, erythromycins, andcephalosporins, although used commonly by pregnant women, were not associated withmany birth defects. Sulfonamides and nitrofurantoins were associated with severalbirth defects, indicating a need for additional scrutiny.
19884587	CID	Sulfonamides	diaphragmatic hernia
19884587	CID	Sulfonamides	hypoplastic left heart syndrome
19884587	CID	Sulfonamides	transverse limb deficiency
19884587	CID	Nitrofurantoins	atrial septal defects
19884587	CID	Nitrofurantoins	hypoplastic left heart syndrome
19884587	CID	Nitrofurantoins	cleft palate
19884587	CID	Nitrofurantoins	anophthalmia
19884587	CID	Sulfonamides	coarctation of the aorta
19884587	CID	Sulfonamides	birth defects
19884587	CID	Sulfonamides	choanal atresia
19884587	CID	Nitrofurantoins	microphthalmos
19884587	CID	Nitrofurantoins	cleft lip
19884587	CID	Sulfonamides	anencephaly
19884587	CID	Nitrofurantoins	birth defects

3970039|t|Incidence of neoplasms in patients with rheumatoid arthritis exposed to differenttreatment regimens.Immunosuppressive drugs have been used during the last 30 years in treatment ofpatients with severe rheumatoid arthritis. The drugs commonly used arecyclophosphamide and chlorambucil (alkylating agents), azathioprine (purineanalogue), and methotrexate (folic acid analogue). There is evidence that all fourimmunosuppressive drugs can reduce synovitis, but disease activity almost alwaysrecurs after therapy is stopped. Since adverse reactions are frequent, less than 50percent of patients are able to continue a particular drug for more than one year.Since it takes three to 12 months to achieve maximal effects, those patients who areunable to continue the drug receive little benefit from it. Patients treated withalkylating agents have an increased risk of development of acute nonlymphocyticleukemia, and both alkylating agents and azathioprine are associated with thedevelopment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Cyclophosphamide therapy increases therisk of carcinoma of the bladder. There have been several long-term studies ofpatients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with azathioprine and cyclophosphamideand the incidence of most of the common cancers is not increased. Data on thepossible increased risk of malignancy in rheumatoid arthritis are still beingcollected, and until further information is available, the use of immunosuppressivedrugs, particularly alkylating agents, in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritisshould be reserved for patients with severe progressive disease or life-threateningcomplications.
3970039	CID	alkylating agents	acute nonlymphocytic leukemia
3970039	CID	cyclophosphamide	carcinoma of the bladder
3970039	CID	alkylating agents	non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
3970039	CID	azathioprine	non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
3970039	CID	cyclophosphamide	carcinoma

424937|t|Patterns of hepatic injury induced by methyldopa.Twelve patients with liver disease related to methyldopa were seen between 1967and 1977. Illness occurred within 1--9 weeks of commencement of therapy in 9patients, the remaining 3 patients having received the drug for 13 months, 15 monthsand 7 years before experiencing symptoms. Jaundice with tender hepatomegaly, usuallypreceded by symptoms of malaise, anorexia, nausea and vomiting, and associated withupper abdominal pain, was an invariable finding in all patients. Biochemical liverfunction tests indicated hepatocellular necrosis and correlated withhistopathological evidence of hepatic injury, the spectrum of which ranged fromfatty change and focal hepatocellular necrosis to massive hepatic necrosis. Mostpatients showed moderate to severe acute hepatitis or chronic active hepatitis withassociated cholestasis. The drug was withdrawn on presentation to hospital in 11patients, with rapid clinical improvement in 9. One patient died, having presentedin hepatic failure, and another, who had been taking methyldopa for 7 years, showedslower clinical and biochemical resolution over a period of several months. Theremaining patient in the series developed fulminant hepatitis when the drug wasaccidentally recommenced 1 year after a prior episode of methyldopa-inducedhepatitis. In this latter patient, and in 2 others, the causal relationship betweenmethyldopa and hepatic dysfunction was proved with the recurrence of hepatitiswithin 2 weeks of re-exposure to the drug.
424937	CID	methyldopa	necrosis
424937	CID	methyldopa	hepatomegaly
424937	CID	methyldopa	nausea
424937	CID	methyldopa	fatty change
424937	CID	methyldopa	vomiting
424937	CID	methyldopa	cholestasis
424937	CID	methyldopa	abdominal pain
424937	CID	methyldopa	Jaundice
424937	CID	methyldopa	hepatic injury
424937	CID	methyldopa	anorexia

8643971|t|A phase I/II study of paclitaxel plus cisplatin as first-line therapy for head andneck cancers: preliminary results.Improved outcomes among patients with head and neck carcinomas requireinvestigations of new drugs for induction therapy. Preliminary results of an EasternCooperative Oncology Group study of single-agent paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-MyersSquibb Company, Princeton, NJ) reported a 37% response rate in patients with headand neck cancer, and the paclitaxel/cisplatin combination has been used successfullyand has significantly improved median response duration in ovarian cancer patients.We initiated a phase I/II trial to determine the response and toxicity of escalatingpaclitaxel doses combined with fixed-dose cisplatin with granulocytecolony-stimulating factor support in patients with untreated locally advancedinoperable head and neck carcinoma. To date, 23 men with a median age of 50 yearsand good performance status have entered the trial. Primary tumor sites wereoropharynx, 10 patients; hypopharynx, four; larynx, two; oral cavity, three; unknownprimary, two; and nasal cavity and parotid gland, one each. Of 20 patients evaluablefor toxicity, four had stage III and 16 had stage IV disease. Treatment, given every21 days for a maximum of three cycles, consisted of paclitaxel by 3-hour infusionfollowed the next day by a fixed dose of cisplatin (75 mg/m2). The dose levelsincorporate escalating paclitaxel doses, and intrapatient escalations within a givendose level are permitted if toxicity permits. At the time of this writing, doselevel 4 (260, 270, and 280 mg/m2) is being evaluated; three patients from this levelare evaluable. With paclitaxel doses of 200 mg/m2 and higher, granulocytecolony-stimulating factor 5 micrograms/kg/d is given (days 4 through 12). Of 18patients evaluable for response, seven (39%) achieved a complete response and six(33%) achieved a partial response. Three patients had no change and diseaseprogressed in two. The overall response rate is 72%. Eleven responding patients hadsubsequent surgery/radiotherapy or radical radiotherapy. Two pathologic completeresponses were observed in patients who had achieved clinical complete responses.Alopecia, paresthesias, and arthralgias/myalgias have occurred frequently, but withone exception (a grade 3 myalgia) they have been grade 1 or 2. No dose-limitinghematologic toxicity has been seen. Paclitaxel/cisplatin is an effective first-lineregimen for locoregionally advanced head and neck cancer and continued study iswarranted. Results thus far suggest no dose-response effect for paclitaxel dosesabove 200 mg/m2.
8643971	CID	cisplatin	Alopecia
8643971	CID	paclitaxel	paresthesias
8643971	CID	paclitaxel	Alopecia
8643971	CID	cisplatin	arthralgias
8643971	CID	paclitaxel	arthralgias
8643971	CID	cisplatin	paresthesias

2224762|t|A phase I study of 4'-0-tetrahydropyranyladriamycin. Clinical pharmacologyand pharmacokinetics.A Phase I study of intravenous (IV) bolus 4'-0-tetrahydropyranyladriamycin(Pirarubicin) was done in 55 patients in good performance status with refractorytumors. Twenty-six had minimal prior therapy (good risk), 23 had extensive priortherapy (poor risk), and six had renal and/or hepatic dysfunction. A total of 167courses at doses of 15 to 70 mg/m2 were evaluable. Maximum tolerated dose ingood-risk patients was 70 mg/m2, and in poor-risk patients, 60 mg/m2. Thedose-limiting toxic effect was transient noncumulative granulocytopenia. Granulocytenadir was on day 14 (range, 4-22). Less frequent toxic effects includedthrombocytopenia, anemia, nausea, mild alopecia, phlebitis, and mucositis.Myelosuppression was more in patients with hepatic dysfunction. Pharmacokineticanalyses in 21 patients revealed Pirarubicin plasma T 1/2 alpha (+/- SE) of 2.5 +/-0.85 minutes, T beta 1/2 of 25.6 +/- 6.5 minutes, and T 1/2 gamma of 23.6 +/- 7.6hours. The area under the curve was 537 +/- 149 ng/ml x hours, volume ofdistribution (Vd) 3504 +/- 644 l/m2, and total clearance (ClT) was 204 + 39.3l/hour/m2. Adriamycinol, doxorubicin, adriamycinone, andtetrahydropyranyladriamycinol were the metabolites detected in plasma and the amountof doxorubicin was less than or equal to 10% of the total metabolites. Urinaryexcretion of Pirarubicin in the first 24 hours was less than or equal to 10%.Activity was noted in mesothelioma, leiomyosarcoma, and basal cell carcinoma. Therecommended starting dose for Phase II trials is 60 mg/m2 IV bolus every 3 weeks.
2224762	CID	doxorubicin	phlebitis
2224762	CID	doxorubicin	granulocytopenia
2224762	CID	doxorubicin	mucositis
2224762	CID	doxorubicin	alopecia
2224762	CID	doxorubicin	thrombocytopenia
2224762	CID	doxorubicin	anemia
2224762	CID	doxorubicin	nausea

2440413|t|Differential effects of gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (lindane) onpharmacologically-induced seizures.Gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH), the active ingredient of the insecticidelindane, has been shown to decrease seizure threshold to pentylenetrazol (PTZ) 3 hafter exposure to gamma-HCH and conversely increase threshold to PTZ-inducedseizures 24 h after exposure to gamma-HCH (Vohland et al. 1981). In this study, theseverity of response to other seizure-inducing agents was tested in mice 1 and 24 hafter intraperitoneal administration of 80 mg/kg gamma-HCH. One hour after theadministration of gamma-HCH, the activity of seizure-inducing agents was increased,regardless of their mechanism, while 24 h after gamma-HCH a differential responsewas observed. Seizure activity due to PTZ and picrotoxin (PTX) was significantlydecreased; however, seizure activity due to 3-mercaptopropionic acid (MPA),bicuculline (BCC), methyl 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-B-carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM), orstrychnine (STR) was not different from control. In vitro, gamma-HCH,pentylenetetrazol and picrotoxin were shown to inhibit 3H-TBOB binding in mousewhole brain, with IC50 values of 4.6, 404 and 9.4 microM, respectively. MPA, BCC,DMCM, and STR showed no inhibition of 3H-TBOB (t-butyl bicyclo-orthobenzoate)binding at concentrations of 100 micron. The pharmacological challenge data suggestthat tolerance may occur to seizure activity induced by PTZ and PTX 24 h aftergamma-HCH, since the response to only these two seizure-inducing agents isdecreased. The in vitro data suggest that the site responsible for the decrease inseizure activity 24 h after gamma-HCH may be the GABA-A receptor-linked chloridechannel.
2440413	CID	methyl 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-B-carboline-3-carboxylate	seizures
2440413	CID	bicuculline	seizures
2440413	CID	PTZ	seizures
2440413	CID	strychnine	seizures
2440413	CID	picrotoxin	seizures
2440413	CID	3-mercaptopropionic acid	seizures

12483326|t|Severe ocular and orbital toxicity after intracarotid injection of carboplatin forrecurrent glioblastomas.BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma is a malignant tumor that occurs in the cerebrum duringadulthood. With current treatment regimens including combined surgery, radiation andchemotherapy, the average life expectancy of the patients is limited toapproximately 1 year. Therefore, patients with glioblastoma sometimes haveintracarotid injection of carcinostatics added to the treatment regimen. Generally,carboplatin is said to have milder side effects than cisplatin, whose ocular andorbital toxicity are well known. However, we experienced a case of severe ocular andorbital toxicity after intracarotid injection of carboplatin, which is infrequentlyreported. CASE: A 58-year-old man received an intracarotid injection of carboplatinfor recurrent glioblastomas in his left temporal lobe. He complained of pain andvisual disturbance in the ipsilateral eye 30 h after the injection. Various ocularsymptoms and findings caused by carboplatin toxicity were seen. RESULTS: He wastreated with intravenous administration of corticosteroids and glycerin for 6 daysafter the injection. Although the intraocular pressure elevation caused by secondaryacute angle-closure glaucoma decreased and ocular pain diminished, inexorablepapilledema and exudative retinal detachment continued for 3 weeks. Finally, 6 weekslater, diffuse chorioretinal atrophy with optic atrophy occurred and the vision inhis left eye was lost. CONCLUSION: When performing intracarotid injection ofcarboplatin, we must be aware of its potentially blinding ocular toxicity. It isrecommended that further studies and investigations are undertaken in the effort tominimize such severe side effects.
12483326	CID	carboplatin	optic atrophy
12483326	CID	carboplatin	papilledema
12483326	CID	carboplatin	retinal detachment
12483326	CID	carboplatin	pain in the ipsilateral eye
12483326	CID	carboplatin	visual disturbance in the ipsilateral eye
12483326	CID	carboplatin	orbital toxicity

1664218|t|Phase II study of the amsacrine analogue CI-921 (NSC 343499) in non-small celllung cancer.CI-921 (NSC 343499; 9-[[2-methoxy-4-[(methylsulphonyl)amino]phenyl]amino]-N,5-dimethyl- 4-acridinecarboxamide) is a topoisomerase II poison with highexperimental antitumour activity. It was administered by 15 min infusion to 16evaluable patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (7 with no priortreatment, 9 patients in relapse following surgery/radiotherapy) at a dose (648mg/m2 divided over 3 days, repeated every 3 weeks) determined by phase I trial.Patients had a median performance status of 1 (WHO), and median age of 61 years. Thehistology comprised squamous carcinoma (11), adenocarcinoma (1), mixed histology(2), bronchio-alveolar carcinoma (1) and large cell undifferentiated carcinoma (1).Neutropenia grade greater than or equal to 3 was seen in 15 patients, infectionswith recovery in 3, and grand mal seizures in 1 patient. Grade less than or equal to2 nausea and vomiting occurred in 66% courses and phlebitis in the infusion arm in37%. 1 patient with squamous cell carcinoma achieved a partial response lasting 5months. Further testing in this and other tumour types using multiple dailyschedules is warranted.
1664218	CID	CI-921	infections
1664218	CID	CI-921	seizures
1664218	CID	CI-921	Neutropenia
1664218	CID	CI-921	nausea
1664218	CID	CI-921	phlebitis
1664218	CID	CI-921	vomiting

18809400|t|Alpha-lipoic acid prevents mitochondrial damage and neurotoxicity in experimentalchemotherapy neuropathy.The study investigates if alpha-lipoic acid is neuroprotective againstchemotherapy induced neurotoxicity, if mitochondrial damage plays a critical role intoxic neurodegenerative cascade, and if neuroprotective effects of alpha-lipoic aciddepend on mitochondria protection. We used an in vitro model of chemotherapy inducedperipheral neuropathy that closely mimic the in vivo condition by exposing primarycultures of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) sensory neurons to paclitaxel and cisplatin,two widely used and highly effective chemotherapeutic drugs. This approach allowedinvestigating the efficacy of alpha-lipoic acid in preventing axonal damage andapoptosis and the function and ultrastructural morphology of mitochondria afterexposure to toxic agents and alpha-lipoic acid. Our results demonstrate that bothcisplatin and paclitaxel cause early mitochondrial impairment with loss of membranepotential and induction of autophagic vacuoles in neurons. Alpha-lipoic acid exertsneuroprotective effects against chemotherapy induced neurotoxicity in sensoryneurons: it rescues the mitochondrial toxicity and induces the expression offrataxin, an essential mitochondrial protein with anti-oxidant and chaperoneproperties. In conclusion mitochondrial toxicity is an early common event both inpaclitaxel and cisplatin induced neurotoxicity. Alpha-lipoic acid protects sensoryneurons through its anti-oxidant and mitochondrial regulatory functions, possiblyinducing the expression of frataxin. These findings suggest that alpha-lipoic acidmight reduce the risk of developing peripheral nerve toxicity in patients undergoingchemotherapy and encourage further confirmatory clinical trials.
18809400	CID	paclitaxel	toxic neurodegenerative cascade
18809400	CID	cisplatin	toxic neurodegenerative cascade
18809400	CID	cisplatin	peripheral neuropathy
18809400	CID	paclitaxel	peripheral neuropathy

17020434|t|Optimising stroke prevention in non-valvular atrial fibrillation.Atrial fibrillation is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. Pooleddata from trials comparing antithrombotic treatment with placebo have shown thatwarfarin reduces the risk of stroke by 62%, and that aspirin alone reduces the riskby 22%. Overall, in high-risk patients, warfarin is superior to aspirin inpreventing strokes, with a relative risk reduction of 36%. Ximelagatran, an oraldirect thrombin inhibitor, was found to be as efficient as vitamin K antagonistdrugs in the prevention of embolic events, but has been recently withdrawn becauseof abnormal liver function tests. The ACTIVE-W (Atrial Fibrillation ClopidogrelTrial with Irbesartan for Prevention of Vascular Events) study has demonstrated thatwarfarin is superior to platelet therapy (clopidogrel plus aspirin) in theprevention af embolic events. Idraparinux, a Factor Xa inhibitor, is being evaluatedin patients with atrial fibrillation. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors andangiotensin II receptor-blocking drugs hold promise in atrial fibrillation throughcardiac remodelling. Preliminary studies suggest that statins could interfere withthe risk of recurrence after electrical cardioversion. Finally, percutaneous methodsfor the exclusion of left atrial appendage are under investigation in high-riskpatients.
17020434	CID	Ximelagatran	abnormal liver function

3865016|t|Interaction of cyclosporin A with antineoplastic agents.A synergistic effect of etoposide and cyclosporin A was observed in a patient withacute T-lymphocytic leukemia in relapse. The concomitant administration of etoposideand cyclosporin A resulted in eradication of hitherto refractory leukemicinfiltration of bone marrow. Severe side effects in terms of mental confusion andprogressive hyperbilirubinemia, however, point to an enhancement not only ofantineoplastic effects but also of toxicity in normal tissues. This reportdemonstrates for the first time that the pharmacodynamic properties of cyclosporin Amay not be confined strictly to suppression of normal T-cell functions.
3865016	CID	cyclosporin A	confusion
3865016	CID	etoposide	hyperbilirubinemia
3865016	CID	etoposide	confusion
3865016	CID	cyclosporin A	hyperbilirubinemia

3629586|t|The hematologic effects of cefonicid and cefazedone in the dog: a potential modelof cephalosporin hematotoxicity in man.Cephalosporin antibiotics cause a variety of hematologic disturbances in man, thepathogeneses and hematopathology of which remain poorly characterized. There is aneed for a well-defined animal model in which these blood dyscrasias can be studied.In four subacute toxicity studies, the intravenous administration of cefonicid orcefazedone to beagle dogs caused a dose-dependent incidence of anemia, neutropenia,and thrombocytopenia after 1-3 months of treatment. A nonregenerative anemia was themost compromising of the cytopenias and occurred in approximately 50% of dogsreceiving 400-500 mg/kg cefonicid or 540-840 mg/kg cefazedone. All three cytopeniaswere completely reversible following cessation of treatment; the time required forrecovery of the erythron (approximately 1 month) was considerably longer than thatof the granulocytes and platelets (hours to a few days). Upon rechallenge witheither cephalosporin, the hematologic syndrome was reproduced in most dogs tested;cefonicid (but not cefazedone)-treated dogs showed a substantially reduced inductionperiod (15 +/- 5 days) compared to that of the first exposure to the drug (61 +/- 24days). This observation, along with the rapid rate of decline in red cell massparameters of affected dogs, suggests that a hemolytic component complicated the redcell production problem and that multiple toxicologic mechanisms contributed to thecytopenia. We conclude that the administration of high doses of cefonicid orcefazedone to dogs can induce hematotoxicity similar to the cephalosporin-inducedblood dyscrasias described in man and thus provides a useful model for studying themechanisms of these disorders.
3629586	CID	cefazedone	neutropenia
3629586	CID	cefonicid	thrombocytopenia
3629586	CID	cefonicid	anemia
3629586	CID	cefazedone	thrombocytopenia
3629586	CID	cefonicid	neutropenia
3629586	CID	cefazedone	anemia

150790|t|A pyridoxine-dependent behavioral disorder unmasked by isoniazid.A 3-year-old girl had behavioral deterioration, with hyperkinesis, irritability,and sleeping difficulties after the therapeutic administration of isoniazid. Theadministration of pharmacologic doses of pyridoxine hydrochloride led to adisappearance of symptoms. After discontinuing isoniazid therapy a similar patternof behavior was noted that was controlled by pyridoxine. A placebo had no effect,but niacinamide was as effective as pyridoxine. Periodic withdrawal of pyridoxinewas associated with return of the hyperkinesis. The level of pyridoxal in the bloodwas normal during the periods of relapse. Metabolic studies suggested a block in thekynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism. The patient has been followed for sixyears and has required pharmacologic doses of pyridoxine to control her behavior.
150790	CID	isoniazid	hyperkinesis
150790	CID	isoniazid	behavioral disorder

10579464|t|A selective dopamine D4 receptor antagonist, NRA0160: a preclinicalneuropharmacological profile.NRA0160, 5 - [2- ( 4- ( 3 - fluorobenzylidene) piperidin-1-yl) ethyl] - 4-(4-fluorophenyl) thiazole-2-carboxamide, has a high affinity for human cloneddopamine D4.2, D4.4 and D4.7 receptors, with Ki values of 0.5, 0.9 and 2.7 nM,respectively. NRA0160 is over 20,000fold more potent at the dopamine D4.2 receptorcompared with the human cloned dopamine D2L receptor. NRA0160 has negligibleaffinity for the human cloned dopamine D3 receptor (Ki=39 nM), rat serotonin(5-HT)2A receptors (Ki=180 nM) and rat alpha1 adrenoceptor (Ki=237 nM). NRA0160 andclozapine antagonized locomotor hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine (MAP) inmice. NRA0160 and clozapine antagonized MAP-induced stereotyped behavior in mice,although their effects did not exceed 50% inhibition, even at the highest dosegiven. NRA0160 and clozapine significantly induced catalepsy in rats, although theireffects did not exceed 50% induction even at the highest dose given. NRA0160 andclozapine significantly reversed the disruption of prepulse inhibition (PPI) in ratsproduced by apomorphine. NRA0160 and clozapine significantly shortened thephencyclidine (PCP)-induced prolonged swimming latency in rats in a water maze task.These findings suggest that NRA0160 may have unique antipsychotic activities withoutthe liability of motor side effects typical of classical antipsychotics.
10579464	CID	methamphetamine	hyperactivity
10579464	CID	clozapine	catalepsy
10579464	CID	NRA0160	catalepsy

3496378|t|Prolonged cholestasis after troleandomycin-induced acute hepatitis.We report the case of a patient in whom troleandomycin-induced hepatitis wasfollowed by prolonged anicteric cholestasis. Jaundice occurred after administrationof troleandomycin for 7 days and was associated with hypereosinophilia. Jaundicedisappeared within 3 months but was followed by prolonged anicteric cholestasismarked by pruritus and high levels of alkaline phosphatase andgammaglutamyltransferase activities. Finally, pruritus disappeared within 19 months,and liver tests returned to normal 27 months after the onset of hepatitis. Thisobservation demonstrates that prolonged cholestasis can followtroleandomycin-induced acute hepatitis.
3496378	CID	troleandomycin	cholestasis
3496378	CID	troleandomycin	Jaundice
3496378	CID	troleandomycin	hypereosinophilia
3496378	CID	troleandomycin	pruritus
3496378	CID	troleandomycin	hepatitis

3076126|t|HMG CoA reductase inhibitors. Current clinical experience.Lovastatin and simvastatin are the 2 best-known members of the class ofhypolipidaemic agents known as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors. Clinical experiencewith lovastatin includes over 5000 patients, 700 of whom have been treated for 2years or more, and experience with simvastatin includes over 3500 patients, of whom350 have been treated for 18 months or more. Lovastatin has been marketed in theUnited States for over 6 months. Both agents show substantial clinical efficacy,with reductions in total cholesterol of over 30% and in LDL-cholesterol of 40% inclinical studies. Modest increases in HDL-cholesterol levels of about 10% are alsoreported. Clinical tolerability of both agents has been good, with fewer than 3% ofpatients withdrawn from treatment because of clinical adverse experiences.Ophthalmological examinations in over 1100 patients treated with one or the otheragent have revealed no evidence of significant short term (up to 2 years)cataractogenic potential. One to 2% of patients have elevations of serumtransaminases to greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal. These episodes areasymptomatic and reversible when therapy is discontinued. Minor elevations ofcreatine kinase levels are reported in about 5% of patients. Myopathy, associated insome cases with myoglobinuria, and in 2 cases with transient renal failure, has beenrarely reported with lovastatin, especially in patients concomitantly treated withcyclosporin, gemfibrozil or niacin. Lovastatin and simvastatin are both effectiveand well-tolerated agents for lowering elevated levels of serum cholesterol. Aswider use confirms their safety profile, they will gain increasing importance in thetherapeutic approach to hypercholesterolaemia and its consequences.
3076126	CID	gemfibrozil	Myopathy
3076126	CID	cyclosporin	Myopathy
3076126	CID	Lovastatin	renal failure
3076126	CID	niacin	Myopathy
3076126	CID	Lovastatin	myoglobinuria

2894766|t|Sulfasalazine-induced lupus erythematosus.Pneumonitis, bilateral pleural effusions, echocardiographic evidence of cardiactamponade, and positive autoantibodies developed in a 43-year-old man, who wasreceiving long-term sulfasalazine therapy for chronic ulcerative colitis. Aftercessation of the sulfasalazine and completion of a six-week course ofcorticosteroids, these problems resolved over a period of four to six months. It issuggested that the patient had sulfasalazine-induced lupus, which manifested withserositis and pulmonary parenchymal involvement in the absence of joint symptoms.Physicians who use sulfasalazine to treat patients with inflammatory bowel diseaseshould be aware of the signs of sulfasalazine-induced lupus syndrome.
2894766	CID	Sulfasalazine	pleural effusions
2894766	CID	Sulfasalazine	Pneumonitis
2894766	CID	Sulfasalazine	lupus erythematosus
2894766	CID	Sulfasalazine	cardiac tamponade

1549199|t|Optimization of levodopa therapy.While there is no single correct starting dose for levodopa therapy, manyindividuals can be started on either the 25/100 or controlled-release formula,following the general rule not to attempt to titrate carbidopa-levodopa to the pointof "normality," which can lead to toxicity. The physician should alsodetermine the proper use of any adjunctive medications; such combined therapy hasbecome the standard approach to treatment. Following the initial period of therapy,emerging difficulties require a reassessment of therapeutic approaches, such asdosage adjustment or introduction of a dopamine agonist. Other possible adverseeffects--such as gastrointestinal disorders, orthostatic hypotension,levodopa-induced psychosis, sleep disturbances or parasomnias, or druginteractions--also require carefully monitored individual treatment.Nonpharmacologic concerns can help the Parkinson's disease patient achieve andmaintain optimal functioning, including daily exercise, physical therapy, andinvolvement with support groups.
1549199	CID	levodopa	parasomnias
1549199	CID	levodopa	gastrointestinal disorders
1549199	CID	levodopa	orthostatic hypotension

88336|t|Alpha and beta coma in drug intoxication uncomplicated by cerebral hypoxia.Four patients who were rendered comatose or stuporous by drug intoxication, butwho were not hypoxic, are described. Three patients received high doses ofchlormethiazole for alcohol withdrawal symptoms, and one took a suicidal overdose ofnitrazepam. The patient with nitrazepam overdose and two of those withchlormethiazole intoxication conformed to the criteria of 'alpha coma',showing non-reactive generalized or frontally predominant alpha activity in the EEG.The fourth patient who was unconscious after chlormethiazole administration exhibitegeneralized non-reactive activity in the slow beta range. All four recoveredcompletely without neurological sequelae following the withdrawal of the offendingagents. The similarities between the effects of structural lesions andpharmacological depression of the brain stem reticular formation are discussed. Itis suggested that in both situations disturbed reticulo-thalamic interactions areimportant in the pathogenesis of alpha coma. It is concluded that when thiselectroencephalographic and behavioural picture is seen in drug intoxication, in theabsence of significant hypoxaemia, a favourable outcome may be anticipated.
88336	CID	chlormethiazole	coma
88336	CID	nitrazepam	coma
88336	CID	chlormethiazole	stuporous
88336	CID	nitrazepam	overdose

18544179|t|Omitting fentanyl reduces nausea and vomiting, without increasing pain, aftersevoflurane for day surgery.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Despite advantages of induction and maintenance ofanaesthesia with sevoflurane, postoperative nausea and vomiting occurs frequently.Fentanyl is a commonly used supplement that may contribute to this, although it mayalso improve analgesia. METHODS: This double-blind study examined the incidence andseverity of postoperative nausea and vomiting and pain in the first 24 h aftersevoflurane anaesthesia in 216 adult day surgery patients. Patients were randomlyallocated to either receive or not receive 1 1 fentanyl, while a third groupreceived dexamethasone in addition to fentanyl. RESULTS: Omission of fentanyl didnot reduce the overall incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting, but didreduce the incidence of vomiting and/or moderate to severe nausea prior to dischargefrom 20% and 17% with fentanyl and fentanyl-dexamethasone, respectively, to 5% (P =0.013). Antiemetic requirements were reduced from 24% and 31% to 7% (P = 0.0012).Dexamethasone had no significant effect on the incidence or severity ofpostoperative nausea and vomiting. Combining the two fentanyl groups revealedfurther significant benefits from the avoidance of opioids, reducing postoperativenausea and vomiting and nausea prior to discharge from 35% and 33% to 22% and 19% (P= 0.049 and P = 0.035), respectively, while nausea in the first 24 h was decreasedfrom 42% to 27% (P = 0.034). Pain severity and analgesic requirements wereunaffected by the omission of fentanyl. Fentanyl did reduce minor intraoperativemovement but had no sevoflurane-sparing effect and increased respiratory depression,hypotension and bradycardia. CONCLUSION: As fentanyl exacerbated postoperativenausea and vomiting without an improvement in postoperative pain and also hadadverse cardiorespiratory effects, it appears to be an unnecessary and possiblydetrimental supplement to sevoflurane in day surgery.
18544179	CID	fentanyl	hypotension
18544179	CID	fentanyl	respiratory depression
18544179	CID	fentanyl	postoperative nausea and vomiting
18544179	CID	fentanyl	bradycardia

18186898|t|Renal Fanconi syndrome and myopathy after liver transplantation: drug-relatedmitochondrial cytopathy?Advances in the field of transplantation provide a better quality of life andallow more favorable conditions for growth and development in children. However,combinations of different therapeutic regimens require consideration of potentialadverse reactions. We describe a 15-yr-old girl who had orthotopic livertransplantation because of Wilson's disease. Tacrolimus, MMF, and steroids weregiven as immunosuppressant. Lamivudine was added because of de nova hepatitis Binfection during her follow-up. Three yr after transplantation she developed renalFanconi syndrome with severe metabolic acidosis, hypophosphatemia, glycosuria, andaminoaciduria. Although tacrolimus was suspected to be the cause of latepost-transplant renal acidosis and was replaced by sirolimus, acidosis, andelectrolyte imbalance got worse. Proximal muscle weakness has developed during herfollow-up. Fanconi syndrome, as well as myopathy, is well recognized in patientswith mitochondrial disorders and caused by depletion of mtDNA. We suggest that ourpatient's tubular dysfunction and myopathy may have resulted from mitochondrialdysfunction which is triggered by tacrolimus and augmented by lamivudine.
18186898	CID	Tacrolimus	Renal Fanconi syndrome
18186898	CID	Tacrolimus	myopathy
18186898	CID	Lamivudine	myopathy
18186898	CID	Lamivudine	Renal Fanconi syndrome

16867021|t|Antipsychotic-like profile of thioperamide, a selective H3-receptor antagonist inmice.Experimental and clinical evidence points to a role of central histaminergicsystem in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. The present study was designed to studythe effect of histamine H(3)-receptor ligands on neuroleptic-induced catalepsy,apomorphine-induced climbing behavior and amphetamine-induced locomotor activitiesin mice. Catalepsy was induced by haloperidol (2 mg/kg p.o.), while apomorphine (1.5mg/kg s.c.) and amphetamine (2 mg/kg s.c.) were used for studying climbing behaviorand locomotor activities, respectively. (R)-alpha-methylhistamine (RAMH) (5 microgi.c.v.) and thioperamide (THP) (15 mg/kg i.p.), per se did not cause catalepsy.Administration of THP (3.75, 7.5 and 15 mg/kg i.p.) 1 h prior to haloperidolresulted in a dose-dependent increase in the catalepsy times (P < 0.05). However,pretreatment with RAMH significantly reversed such an effect of THP (15 mg/kg i.p.).RAMH per se showed significant reduction in locomotor time, distance traveled andaverage speed but THP (15 mg/kg i.p.) per se had no effect on these parameters. Onamphetamine-induced hyperactivity, THP (3.75 and 7.5 mg/kg i.p.) reduced locomotortime, distance traveled and average speed (P < 0.05). Pretreatment with RAMH (5microg i.c.v.) could partially reverse such effects of THP (3.75 mg/kg i.p.).Climbing behavior induced by apomorphine was reduced in animals treated with THP.Such an effect was, however, reversed in presence of RAMH. THP exhibited anantipsychotic-like profile by potentiating haloperidol-induced catalepsy, reducingamphetamine-induced hyperactivity and reducing apomorphine-induced climbing in mice.Such effects of THP were reversed by RAMH indicating the involvement of histamineH(3)-receptors. Findings suggest a potential for H(3)-receptor antagonists inimproving the refractory cases of schizophrenia.
16867021	CID	amphetamine	hyperactivity
16867021	CID	haloperidol	catalepsy
16867021	CID	thioperamide	catalepsy

14976857|t|Transient platypnea-orthodeoxia-like syndrome induced by propafenone overdose in ayoung woman with Ebstein's anomaly.In this report we describe the case of a 37-year-old white woman withEbstein's anomaly, who developed a rare syndrome called platypnea-orthodeoxia,characterized by massive right-to-left interatrial shunting with transient profoundhypoxia and cyanosis. This shunt of blood via a patent foramen ovale occurred in thepresence of a normal pulmonary artery pressure, and was probably precipitated by apropafenone overdose. This drug caused biventricular dysfunction, due to itsnegative inotropic effect, and hypotension, due to its peripheral vasodilatoryeffect. These effects gave rise to an increase in the right atrial pressure and adecrease in the left one with a consequent stretching of the foramen ovale and thecreation of massive right-to-left shunting. In our case this interatrial shunt wasvery accurately detected at bubble contrast echocardiography.
14976857	CID	propafenone	biventricular dysfunction
14976857	CID	propafenone	hypoxia
14976857	CID	propafenone	cyanosis

11745184|t|A Phase II trial of cisplatin plus WR-2721 (amifostine) for metastatic breastcarcinoma: an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Study (E8188).BACKGROUND: Cisplatin has minimal antitumor activity when used as second- orthird-line treatment of metastatic breast carcinoma. Older reports suggest anobjective response rate of 8% when 60-120 mg/m2 of cisplatin is administered every3-4 weeks. Although a dose-response effect has been observed with cisplatin, thedose-limiting toxicities associated with cisplatin (e.g., nephrotoxicity,ototoxicity, and neurotoxicity) have limited its use as a treatment for breastcarcinoma. WR-2721 or amifostine initially was developed to protect militarypersonnel in the event of nuclear war. Amifostine subsequently was shown to protectnormal tissues from the toxic effects of alkylating agents and cisplatin withoutdecreasing the antitumor effect of the chemotherapy. Early trials of cisplatin andamifostine also suggested that the incidence and severity of cisplatin-inducednephrotoxicity, ototoxicity, and neuropathy were reduced. METHODS: A Phase II studyof the combination of cisplatin plus amifostine was conducted in patients withprogressive metastatic breast carcinoma who had received one, but not more than one,chemotherapy regimen for metastatic disease. Patients received amifostine, 910 mg/m2intravenously over 15 minutes. After completion of the amifostine infusion,cisplatin 120 mg/m2 was administered over 30 minutes. Intravenous hydration andmannitol was administered before and after cisplatin. Treatment was administeredevery 3 weeks until disease progression. RESULTS: Forty-four patients were enrolledin the study of which 7 (16%) were ineligible. A median of 2 cycles of therapy wasadministered to the 37 eligible patients. Six partial responses were observed for anoverall response rate of 16%. Most patients (57%) stopped treatment because ofdisease progression. Neurologic toxicity was reported in 52% of patients. Sevendifferent life-threatening toxicities were observed in patients while receivingtreatment. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of cisplatin and amifostine in this studyresulted in an overall response rate of 16%. Neither a tumor-protective effect norreduced toxicity to normal tissues was observed with the addition of amifostine tocisplatin in this trial.
11745184	CID	cisplatin	neuropathy
11745184	CID	cisplatin	ototoxicity
11745184	CID	cisplatin	nephrotoxicity

3985451|t|Warfarin-induced iliopsoas hemorrhage with subsequent femoral nerve palsy.We present the case of a 28-year-old man on chronic warfarin therapy who sustaineda minor muscle tear and developed increasing pain and a flexure contracture of theright hip. Surgical exploration revealed an iliopsoas hematoma and femoral nerveentrapment, resulting in a femoral nerve palsy and partial loss of quadricepsfunctions. Anticoagulant-induced femoral nerve palsy represents the most common formof warfarin-induced peripheral neuropathy; it is characterized by severe pain in theinguinal region, varying degrees of motor and sensory impairment, and flexurecontracture of the involved extremity.
3985451	CID	Warfarin	femoral nerve palsy
3985451	CID	Warfarin	nerve entrapment
3985451	CID	Warfarin	muscle tear
3985451	CID	Warfarin	hematoma

3750012|t|Myasthenia gravis caused by penicillamine and chloroquine therapy for rheumatoidarthritis.We have described a unique patient who had reversible and dose-related myastheniagravis after penicillamine and chloroquine therapy for rheumatoid arthritis.Although acetylcholine receptor antibodies were not detectable, the time course wasconsistent with an autoimmune process.
3750012	CID	chloroquine	Myasthenia gravis
3750012	CID	penicillamine	Myasthenia gravis

1130930|t|Nephrotoxicity of combined cephalothin-gentamicin regimen.Two patients developed acute tubular necrosis, characterized clinically by acuteoliguric renal failure, while they were receiving a combination of cephalothinsodium and gentamicin sulfate therapy. Patients who are given this drug regimenshould be observed very carefully for early signs of nephrotoxicity. High doses ofthis antibiotic combination should be avoided especially in elderly patients.Patients with renal insufficiency should not be given this regimen.
1130930	CID	gentamicin	acute tubular necrosis
1130930	CID	cephalothin	acute tubular necrosis
1130930	CID	gentamicin	oliguric
1130930	CID	cephalothin	oliguric

19356307|t|Components of lemon essential oil attenuate dementia induced by scopolamine.The anti-dementia effects of s-limonene and s-perillyl alcohol were observed usingthe passive avoidance test (PA) and the open field habituation test (OFH). Theselemon essential oils showed strong ability to improve memory impaired byscopolamine; however, s-perillyl alcohol relieved the deficit of associative memoryin PA only, and did not improve non-associative memory significantly in OFH.Analysis of neurotransmitter concentration in some brain regions on the test dayshowed that dopamine concentration of the vehicle/scopolamine group wassignificantly lower than that of the vehicle/vehicle group, but this phenomenon wasreversed when s-limonene or s-perillyl alcohol were administered before theinjection of scopolamine. Simultaneously, we found that these two lemon essentialoil components could inhibit acetylcholinesterase activity in vitro using the Ellmanmethod.
19356307	CID	scopolamine	memory impaired

15957009|t|The selective 5-HT6 receptor antagonist Ro4368554 restores memory performance incholinergic and serotonergic models of memory deficiency in the rat.Antagonists at serotonin type 6 (5-HT(6)) receptors show activity in models oflearning and memory. Although the underlying mechanism(s) are not well understood,these effects may involve an increase in acetylcholine (ACh) levels. The presentstudy sought to characterize the cognitive-enhancing effects of the 5-HT(6)antagonist Ro4368554 (3-benzenesulfonyl-7-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)1H-indole) in arat object recognition task employing a cholinergic (scopolamine pretreatment) and aserotonergic- (tryptophan (TRP) depletion) deficient model, and compared its patternof action with that of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor metrifonate. Initialtesting in a time-dependent forgetting task employing a 24-h delay between trainingand testing showed that metrifonate improved object recognition (at 10 and 30 mg/kg,p.o.), whereas Ro4368554 was inactive. Both, Ro4368554 (3 and 10 mg/kg,intraperitoneally (i.p.)) and metrifonate (10 mg/kg, p.o., respectively) reversedmemory deficits induced by scopolamine and TRP depletion (10 mg/kg, i.p., and 3mg/kg, p.o., respectively). In conclusion, although Ro4368554 did not improve atime-related retention deficit, it reversed a cholinergic and a serotonergic memorydeficit, suggesting that both mechanisms may be involved in the facilitation ofobject memory by Ro4368554 and, possibly, other 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists.
15957009	CID	scopolamine	memory deficiency

15899738|t|Lone atrial fibrillation associated with creatine monohydrate supplementation.Atrial fibrillation in young patients without structural heart disease is rare.Therefore, when the arrhythmia is present in this population, reversible causes mustbe identified and resolved. Thyroid disorders, illicit drug or stimulant use, andacute alcohol intoxication are among these causes. We report the case of a30-year-old Caucasian man who came to the emergency department in atrialfibrillation with rapid ventricular response. His medical history was unremarkable,except for minor fractures of the fingers and foot. Thyroid-stimulating hormone,magnesium, and potassium levels were within normal limits, urine drug screen wasnegative, and alcohol use was denied. However, when the patient was questioned aboutuse of herbal products and supplements, the use of creatine monohydrate wasrevealed. The patient was admitted to the hospital, anticoagulated withunfractionated heparin, and given intravenous diltiazem for rate control andintravenous amiodarone for rate and rhythm control. When discharged less than 24hours later, he was receiving metoprolol and aspirin, with follow-up plans forechocardiography and nuclear imaging to assess perfusion. Exogenous creatine is usedby athletes to theoretically improve exercise performance. Vegetarians may also takecreatine to replace what they are not consuming from meat, fish, and other animalproducts. Previous anecdotal reports have linked creatine to the development ofarrhythmia. Clinicians must be diligent when interviewing patients about their drugtherapy histories and include questions about their use of herbal products anddietary supplements. In addition, it is important to report adverse effectsassociated with frequently consumed supplements and herbal products to the Food andDrug Administration and in the literature.
15899738	CID	creatine	atrial fibrillation

15863244|t|Comparison of developmental toxicity of selective and non-selectivecyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors in CRL:(WI)WUBR Wistar rats--DFU and piroxicam study.BACKGROUND: Cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors are one of the most often ingesteddrugs during pregnancy. Unlike general toxicity data, their prenatal toxic effectswere not extensively studied before. The aim of the experiment was to evaluate thedevelopmental toxicity of the non-selective (piroxicam) and selective (DFU;5,5-dimethyl-3-(3-fluorophenyl)-4-(4-methylsulphonyl) phenyl-2(5H)-furanon) COX-2inhibitors. METHODS: Drugs were separately, orally once daily dosed to pregnant ratsfrom day 8 to 21 (GD1=plug day). Doses were set at 0.3, 3.0 and 30.0mg/kg forpiroxicam and 0.2, 2.0 and 20.0mg/kg for DFU. Fetuses were delivered on GD 21 androutinely examined. Comprehensive clinical and developmental measurements were done.The pooled statistical analysis for ventricular septal (VSD) and midline (MD)defects was performed for rat fetuses exposed to piroxicam, selective andnon-selective COX-2 inhibitor based on present and historic data. RESULTS: Maternaltoxicity, intrauterine growth retardation, and increase of external and skeletalvariations were found in rats treated with the highest dose of piroxicam. Decreaseof fetal length was the only signs of the DFU developmental toxicity observed inpups exposed to the highest compound dose. Lack of teratogenicity was found inpiroxicam and DFU-exposed groups. Prenatal exposure to non-selective COX inhibitorsincreases the risk of VSD and MD when compared to historic control but not withselective COX-2 inhibitors. CONCLUSION: Both selective and non-selective COX-2inhibitors were toxic for rats fetuses when administered in the highest dose. UnlikeDFU, piroxicam was also highly toxic to the dams. Prenatal exposure to selectiveCOX-2 inhibitors does not increase the risk of ventricular septal and midlinedefects in rat when compared to non-selective drugs and historic control.
15863244	CID	piroxicam	intrauterine growth retardation
15863244	CID	piroxicam	increase of external and skeletal variations
15863244	CID	DFU	intrauterine growth retardation

12921865|t|Protective efficacy of neuroactive steroids against cocaine kindled-seizures inmice.Neuroactive steroids demonstrate pharmacological actions that have relevance for ahost of neurological and psychiatric disorders. They offer protection againstseizures in a range of models and seem to inhibit certain stages of drug dependencein preclinical assessments. The present study was designed to evaluate twoendogenous and one synthetic neuroactive steroid that positively modulate thegamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor against the increase in sensitivity tothe convulsant effects of cocaine engendered by repeated cocaine administration(seizure kindling). Allopregnanolone (3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one),pregnanolone (3alpha-hydroxy-5beta-pregnan-20-one) and ganaxolone (a syntheticderivative of allopregnanolone 3alpha-hydroxy-3beta-methyl-5alpha-pregnan-20-one)were tested for their ability to suppress the expression (anticonvulsant effect) anddevelopment (antiepileptogenic effect) of cocaine-kindled seizures in male,Swiss-Webster mice. Kindled seizures were induced by daily administration of 60mg/kg cocaine for 5 days. All of these positive GABA(A) modulators suppressed theexpression of kindled seizures, whereas only allopregnanolone and ganaxoloneinhibited the development of kindling. Allopregnanolone and pregnanolone, but notganaxolone, also reduced cumulative lethality associated with kindling. Thesefindings demonstrate that some neuroactive steroids attenuate convulsant andsensitizing properties of cocaine and add to a growing literature on their potentialuse in the modulation of effects of drugs of abuse.
12921865	CID	cocaine	seizures

12584269|t|Kidney function and morphology after short-term combination therapy withcyclosporine A, tacrolimus and sirolimus in the rat.BACKGROUND: Sirolimus (SRL) may supplement calcineurin inhibitors in clinicalorgan transplantation. These are nephrotoxic, but SRL seems to act differentlydisplaying only minor nephrotoxic effects, although this question is still open. Ina number of treatment protocols where SRL was combined with a calcineurin inhibitorindications of a synergistic nephrotoxic effect were described. The aim of thisstudy was to examine further the renal function, including morphological analysis ofthe kidneys of male Sprague-Dawley rats treated with either cyclosporine A (CsA),tacrolimus (FK506) or SRL as monotherapies or in different combinations. METHODS:For a period of 2 weeks, CsA 15 mg/kg/day (given orally), FK506 3.0 mg/kg/day (givenorally) or SRL 0.4 mg/kg/day (given intraperitoneally) was administered once a dayas these doses have earlier been found to achieve a significant immunosuppressiveeffect in Sprague-Dawley rats. In the 'conscious catheterized rat' model,the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was measured as the clearance of Cr(EDTA). Themorphological analysis of the kidneys included a semi-quantitative scoring systemanalysing the degree of striped fibrosis, subcapsular fibrosis and the number ofbasophilic tubules, plus an additional stereological analysis of the total grade offibrosis in the cortex stained with Sirius Red. RESULTS: CsA, FK506 and SRL allsignificantly decreased the GFR. A further deterioration was seen when CsA wascombined with either FK506 or SRL, whereas the GFR remained unchanged in the grouptreated with FK506 plus SRL when compared with treatment with any of the singlesubstances. The morphological changes presented a similar pattern. Thesemi-quantitative scoring was significantly worst in the group treated with CsA plusSRL (P<0.001 compared with controls) and the analysis of the total grade offibrosis also showed the highest proportion in the same group and was significantlydifferent from controls (P<0.02). The FK506 plus SRL combination showed only amarginally higher degree of fibrosis as compared with controls (P=0.05). CONCLUSION:This rat study demonstrated a synergistic nephrotoxic effect of CsA plus SRL,whereas FK506 plus SRL was better tolerated.
12584269	CID	cyclosporine A	nephrotoxic
12584269	CID	tacrolimus	nephrotoxic
12584269	CID	sirolimus	nephrotoxic

10406016|t|Effect of fucoidan treatment on collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage inrats.Inflammatory cells are postulated to mediate some of the brain damage followingischemic stroke. Intracerebral hemorrhage is associated with more inflammation thanischemic stroke. We tested the sulfated polysaccharide fucoidan, which has beenreported to reduce inflammatory brain damage, in a rat model of intracerebralhemorrhage induced by injection of bacterial collagenase into the caudate nucleus.Rats were treated with seven day intravenous infusion of fucoidan (30 microgramsh-1) or vehicle. The hematoma was assessed in vivo by magnetic resonance imaging.Motor behavior, passive avoidance, and skilled forelimb function were testedrepeatedly for six weeks. Fucoidan-treated rats exhibited evidence of impaired bloodclotting and hemodilution, had larger hematomas, and tended to have lessinflammation in the vicinity of the hematoma after three days. They showedsignificantly more rapid improvement of motor function in the first week followinghemorrhage and better memory retention in the passive avoidance test. Acute whitematter edema and eventual neuronal loss in the striatum adjacent to the hematoma didnot differ between the two groups. Investigation of more specific anti-inflammatoryagents and hemodiluting agents are warranted in intracerebral hemorrhage.
10406016	CID	fucoidan	impaired blood clotting
10406016	CID	fucoidan	white matter edema

3403780|t|Paracetamol-associated coma, metabolic acidosis, renal and hepatic failure.A case of metabolic acidosis, acute renal failure and hepatic failure followingparacetamol ingestion is presented. The diagnostic difficulty at presentation ishighlighted. Continuous arteriovenous haemofiltration proved a valuable means ofmaintaining fluid and electrolyte balance. The patient recovered.
3403780	CID	Paracetamol	metabolic acidosis
3403780	CID	Paracetamol	acute hepatic failure
3403780	CID	Paracetamol	renal failure

3101906|t|Hepatic reactions associated with ketoconazole in the United Kingdom.Ketoconazole was introduced in the United Kingdom in 1981. By November 1984 theCommittee on Safety of Medicines had received 82 reports of possible hepatotoxicityassociated with the drug, including five deaths. An analysis of the 75 cases thathad been adequately followed up suggested that 16, including three deaths, wereprobably related to treatment with the drug. Of the remainder, 48 were possiblyrelated to treatment, five were unlikely to be so, and six were unclassifiable. Themean age of patients in the 16 probable cases was 57.9, with hepatotoxicity beingmore common in women. The average duration of treatment before the onset of jaundicewas 61 days. None of these well validated cases occurred within the first 10 daysafter treatment. The results of serum liver function tests suggested hepatocellularinjury in 10 (63%); the rest showed a mixed pattern. In contrast, the results ofhistological examination of the liver often showed evidence of cholestasis. Thecharacteristics of the 48 patients in the possible cases were similar. Allergicmanifestations such as rash and eosinophilia were rare. Hepatitis was usuallyreversible when treatment was stopped, with the results of liver function testsreturning to normal after an average of 3.1 months. In two of the three deathsprobably associated with ketoconazole treatment the drug had been continued afterthe onset of jaundice and other symptoms of hepatitis. Clinical and biochemicalmonitoring at regular intervals for evidence of hepatitis is advised during longterm treatment with ketoconazole to prevent possible serious hepatic injury.
3101906	CID	ketoconazole	jaundice
3101906	CID	ketoconazole	cholestasis
3101906	CID	ketoconazole	hepatotoxicity

9088814|t|Combined effects of prolonged prostaglandin E1-induced hypotension andhaemodilution on human hepatic function.Combined effects of prolonged prostaglandin E1 (PGE1)-induced hypotension andhaemodilution on hepatic function were studied in 30 patients undergoing hipsurgery. The patients were randomly allocated to one of three groups; those in groupA (n = 10) were subjected to controlled hypotension alone, those in group B (n = 10)to haemodilution alone and those in group C (n = 10) to both controlled hypotensionand haemodilution. Haemodilution in groups B and C was produced by withdrawingapproximately 1000 mL of blood and replacing it with the same amount of dextransolution, and final haematocrit values were 21 or 22%. Controlled hypotension ingroups A and C was induced with PGE1 to maintain mean arterial blood pressure at 55mmHg for 180 min. Measurements included arterial ketone body ratio (AKBR,aceto-acetate/3-hydroxybutyrate) and clinical hepatic function parameters. AKBR andbiological hepatic function tests showed no change throughout the time course ingroups A and B. In group C, AKBR showed a significant decrease at 120 min (-40%) andat 180 min (-49%) after the start of hypotension and at 60 min (-32%) after recoveryof normotension, and SGOT, SGPT, LDH and total bilirubin showed significantincreases after operation. The results suggest that a prolonged combination of morethan 120 min of PGE1-induced hypotension and moderate haemodilution would causeimpairment of hepatic function.
9088814	CID	prostaglandin E1	hypotension
9088814	CID	prostaglandin E1	impairment of hepatic function

20880751|t|Levodopa-induced dyskinesias in patients with Parkinson's disease: fillingthe bench-to-bedside gap.Levodopa is the most effective drug for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.However, the long-term use of this dopamine precursor is complicated by highlydisabling fluctuations and dyskinesias. Although preclinical and clinical findingssuggest pulsatile stimulation of striatal postsynaptic receptors as a key mechanismunderlying levodopa-induced dyskinesias, their pathogenesis is still unclear. Inrecent years, evidence from animal models of Parkinson's disease has providedimportant information to understand the effect of specific receptor andpost-receptor molecular mechanisms underlying the development of dyskineticmovements. Recent preclinical and clinical data from promising lines of researchfocus on the differential role of presynaptic versus postsynaptic mechanisms,dopamine receptor subtypes, ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors, andnon-dopaminergic neurotransmitter systems in the pathophysiology of levodopa-induceddyskinesias.
20880751	CID	Levodopa	dyskinesias

20080419|t|Prevention of seizures and reorganization of hippocampal functions bytransplantation of bone marrow cells in the acute phase of experimental epilepsy.In this study, we investigated the therapeutic potential of bone marrowmononuclear cells (BMCs) in a model of epilepsy induced by pilocarpine in rats. BMCsobtained from green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgenic mice or rats weretransplanted intravenously after induction of status epilepticus (SE). Spontaneousrecurrent seizures (SRS) were monitored using Racine's seizure severity scale.All of the rats in the saline-treated epileptic control group developed SRS, whereasnone of the BMC-treated epileptic animals had seizures in the short term (15 daysafter transplantation), regardless of the BMC source. Over the long-term chronicphase (120 days after transplantation), only 25% of BMC-treated epileptic animalshad seizures, but with a lower frequency and duration compared to the epilepticcontrol group. The density of hippocampal neurons in the brains of animals treatedwith BMCs was markedly preserved. At hippocampal Schaeffer collateral-CA1 synapses,long-term potentiation was preserved in BMC-transplanted rats compared to epilepticcontrols. The donor-derived GFP(+) cells were rarely found in the brains oftransplanted epileptic rats. In conclusion, treatment with BMCs can prevent thedevelopment of chronic seizures, reduce neuronal loss, and influence thereorganization of the hippocampal neuronal network.
20080419	CID	pilocarpine	epilepsy
20080419	CID	pilocarpine	status epilepticus

19445921|t|Cardioprotective effect of salvianolic acid A on isoproterenol-induced myocardialinfarction in rats.The present study was designed to evaluate the cardioprotective potential ofsalvianolic acid A on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats.Hemodynamic parameters and lead II electrocardiograph were monitored and recordedcontinuously. Cardiac marker enzymes and antioxidative parameters in serum and hearttissues were measured. Assay for mitochondrial respiratory function andhistopathological examination of heart tissues were performed. Isoproterenol-treatedrats showed significant increases in the levels of lactate dehydrogenase, aspartatetransaminase, creatine kinase and malondialdehyde and significant decreases in theactivities of superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase in serum andheart. These rats also showed declines in left ventricular systolic pressure,maximum and minimum rate of developed left ventricular pressure, and elevation ofleft ventricular end-diastolic pressure and ST-segment. In addition, mitochondrialrespiratory dysfunction characterized by decreased respiratory control ratio andADP/O was observed in isoproterenol-treated rats. Administration of salvianolic acidA for a period of 8 days significantly attenuated isoproterenol-induced cardiacdysfunction and myocardial injury and improved mitochondrial respiratory function.The protective role of salvianolic acid A against isoproterenol-induced myocardialdamage was further confirmed by histopathological examination. The results of ourstudy suggest that salvianolic acid A possessing antioxidant activity has asignificant protective effect against isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction.
19445921	CID	isoproterenol	myocardial infarction

18439803|t|Acute effects of N-(2-propylpentanoyl)urea on hippocampal amino acidneurotransmitters in pilocarpine-induced seizure in rats.The present study aimed to investigate the anticonvulsant activity as well as theeffects on the level of hippocampal amino acid neurotransmitters (glutamate,aspartate, glycine and GABA) of N-(2-propylpentanoyl)urea (VPU) in comparison to itsparent compound, valproic acid (VPA). VPU was more potent than VPA, exhibiting themedian effective dose (ED(50)) of 49 mg/kg in protecting rats againstpilocarpine-induced seizure whereas the corresponding value for VPA was 322 mg/kg.In vivo microdialysis demonstrated that an intraperitoneal administration ofpilocarpine induced a pronounced increment of hippocampal glutamate and aspartatewhereas no significant change was observed on the level of glycine and GABA.Pretreatment with either VPU (50 and 100 mg/kg) or VPA (300 and 600 mg/kg)completely abolished pilocarpine-evoked increases in extracellular glutamate andaspartate. In addition, a statistically significant reduction was also observed onthe level of GABA and glycine but less than a drastic reduction of glutamate andaspartate level. Based on the finding that VPU and VPA could protect the animalsagainst pilocarpine-induced seizure it is suggested that the reduction of inhibitoryamino acid neurotransmitters was comparatively minor and offset by a pronouncedreduction of glutamate and aspartate. Therefore, like VPA, the finding that VPUcould drastically reduce pilocarpine-induced increases in glutamate and aspartateshould account, at least partly, for its anticonvulsant activity observed inpilocarpine-induced seizure in experimental animals. Some other mechanism than thosebeing reported herein should be further investigated.
18439803	CID	pilocarpine	seizure

17919553|t|Acute hepatitis attack after exposure to telithromycin.INTRODUCTION: Antibiotic-associated hepatotoxicity is rare. With widespread use ofantimicrobial agents, however, hepatic injury occurs frequently, and among adversedrug reactions, idiosyncratic reactions are the most serious. CASE SUMMARY: A25-year-old male patient, with a height of 175 cm and weight of 72 kg presented toMarmara University Hospital Emergency Department, Istanbul, Turkey, with 5days' history of jaundice, malaise, nausea, and vomiting. He had beenprescribed telithromycin 400 mg/d PO to treat an upper respiratory tract infection 7days prior. Admission laboratory tests were as follows: alanine aminotransferase, 67U/L (reference range, 10-37 U/L); aspartate aminotransferase, 98 U/L (10-40 U/L);alkaline phosphatase, 513 U/L (0-270 U/L); gamma-glutamyltransferase, 32 U/L (7-49U/L); amylase, 46 U/L (0-220 U/L); total bilirubin, 20.1 mg/dL (0.2-1.0 mg/dL);direct bilirubin, 14.8 mg/dL (0-0.3 mg/dL); and albumin, 4.7 mg/dL (3.5-5.4 mg/dL).No toxin, alcohol, or other drugs were reported. The patient had suffered a previousepisode of "acute hepatitis of unknown origin," that occurred aftertelithromycin usage. Both incidents occurred within a year. DISCUSSION:Telithromycin is the first of the ketolide antibacterials to receive US Food andDrug Administration approval for clinical use. It has been associated withinfrequent and usually reversible severe hepatic dysfunction. Based on a score of 8on the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale, telithromycin was theprobable cause of acute hepatitis in this patient, and pathological findingssuggested drug-induced toxic hepatitis. Recurrence of hepatitis attack might havebeen avoided if the initial incident had been communicated to the attendingphysician who prescribed telithromycin the second time. CONCLUSION: Here we report acase of acute hepatitis probably associated with the administration oftelithromycin.
17919553	CID	telithromycin	hepatitis

15632880|t|Spironolactone-induced renal insufficiency and hyperkalemia in patients with heartfailure.BACKGROUND: A previous randomized controlled trial evaluating the use ofspironolactone in heart failure patients reported a low risk of hyperkalemia (2%)and renal insufficiency (0%). Because treatments for heart failure have changedsince the benefits of spironolactone were reported, the prevalence of thesecomplications may differ in current clinical practice. We therefore sought todetermine the prevalence and clinical associations of hyperkalemia and renalinsufficiency in heart failure patients treated with spironolactone. METHODS: Weperformed a case control study of heart failure patients treated with spironolactonein our clinical practice. Cases were patients who developed hyperkalemia (K(+)>5.0 mEq/L) or renal insufficiency (Cr >or=2.5 mg/dL), and they were comparedto 2 randomly selected controls per case. Clinical characteristics, medications, andserum chemistries at baseline and follow-up time periods were compared. RESULTS:Sixty-seven of 926 patients (7.2%) required discontinuation of spironolactone due tohyperkalemia (n = 33) or renal failure (n = 34). Patients who developed hyperkalemiawere older and more likely to have diabetes, had higher baseline serum potassiumlevels and lower baseline potassium supplement doses, and were more likely to betreated with beta-blockers than controls (n = 134). Patients who developed renalinsufficiency had lower baseline body weight and higher baseline serum creatinine,required higher doses of loop diuretics, and were more likely to be treated withthiazide diuretics than controls. CONCLUSIONS: Spironolactone-induced hyperkalemiaand renal insufficiency are more common in our clinical experience than reportedpreviously. This difference is explained by patient comorbidities and more frequentuse of beta-blockers.
15632880	CID	Spironolactone	hyperkalemia
15632880	CID	Spironolactone	renal insufficiency

11773892|t|End-stage renal disease (ESRD) after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLTX) usingcalcineurin-based immunotherapy: risk of development and treatment.BACKGROUND: The calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine and tacrolimus are both knownto be nephrotoxic. Their use in orthotopic liver transplantation (OLTX) hasdramatically improved success rates. Recently, however, we have had an increase ofpatients who are presenting after OLTX with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Thisretrospective study examines the incidence and treatment of ESRD and chronic renalfailure (CRF) in OLTX patients. METHODS: Patients receiving an OLTX only from June1985 through December of 1994 who survived 6 months postoperatively were studied(n=834). Our prospectively collected database was the source of information.Patients were divided into three groups: Controls, no CRF or ESRD, n=748; CRF,sustained serum creatinine >2.5 mg/dl, n=41; and ESRD, n=45. Groups were comparedfor preoperative laboratory variables, diagnosis, postoperative variables, survival,type of ESRD therapy, and survival from onset of ESRD. RESULTS: At 13 years afterOLTX, the incidence of severe renal dysfunction was 18.1% (CRF 8.6% and ESRD 9.5%).Compared with control patients, CRF and ESRD patients had higher preoperative serumcreatinine levels, a greater percentage of patients with hepatorenal syndrome,higher percentage requirement for dialysis in the first 3 months postoperatively,and a higher 1-year serum creatinine. Multivariate stepwise logistic regressionanalysis using preoperative and postoperative variables identified that an increaseof serum creatinine compared with average at 1 year, 3 months, and 4 weekspostoperatively were independent risk factors for the development of CRF or ESRDwith odds ratios of 2.6, 2.2, and 1.6, respectively. Overall survival from the timeof OLTX was not significantly different among groups, but by year 13, the survivalof the patients who had ESRD was only 28.2% compared with 54.6% in the controlgroup. Patients developing ESRD had a 6-year survival after onset of ESRD of 27% forthe patients receiving hemodialysis versus 71.4% for the patients developing ESRDwho subsequently received kidney transplants. CONCLUSIONS: Patients who are morethan 10 years post-OLTX have CRF and ESRD at a high rate. The development of ESRDdecreases survival, particularly in those patients treated with dialysis only.Patients who develop ESRD have a higher preoperative and 1-year serum creatinine andare more likely to have hepatorenal syndrome. However, an increase of serumcreatinine at various times postoperatively is more predictive of the development ofCRF or ESRD. New strategies for long-term immunosuppression may be needed todecrease this complication.
11773892	CID	tacrolimus	nephrotoxic
11773892	CID	cyclosporine	nephrotoxic

10835440|t|Effect of intravenous nimodipine on blood pressure and outcome after acute stroke.BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The Intravenous Nimodipine West European Stroke Trial(INWEST) found a correlation between nimodipine-induced reduction in blood pressure(BP) and an unfavorable outcome in acute stroke. We sought to confirm thiscorrelation with and without adjustment for prognostic variables and to investigateoutcome in subgroups with increasing levels of BP reduction. METHODS: Patients witha clinical diagnosis of ischemic stroke (within 24 hours) were consecutivelyallocated to receive placebo (n=100), 1 mg/h (low-dose) nimodipine (n=101), or 2mg/h (high-dose) nimodipine (n=94). The correlation between average BP change duringthe first 2 days and the outcome at day 21 was analyzed. RESULTS: Two hundredsixty-five patients were included in this analysis (n=92, 93, and 80 for placebo,low dose, and high dose, respectively). Nimodipine treatment resulted in astatistically significant reduction in systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP) frombaseline compared with placebo during the first few days. In multivariate analysis,a significant correlation between DBP reduction and worsening of the neurologicalscore was found for the high-dose group (beta=0.49, P=0. 048). Patients with a DBPreduction of > or =20% in the high-dose group had a significantly increasedadjusted OR for the compound outcome variable death or dependency (Barthel Index<60) (n/N=25/26, OR 10. 16, 95% CI 1.02 to 101.74) and death alone (n/N=9/26, OR4.336, 95% CI 1.131 16.619) compared with all placebo patients (n/N=62/92 and 14/92,respectively). There was no correlation between SBP change and outcome. CONCLUSIONS:DBP, but not SBP, reduction was associated with neurological worsening after theintravenous administration of high-dose nimodipine after acute stroke. For low-dosenimodipine, the results were not conclusive. These results do not confirm or excludea neuroprotective property of nimodipine.
10835440	CID	nimodipine	reduction in blood pressure

9523805|t|Transient neurologic symptoms after spinal anesthesia: a lower incidence withprilocaine and bupivacaine than with lidocaine.BACKGROUND: Recent evidence suggests that transient neurologic symptoms (TNSs)frequently follow lidocaine spinal anesthesia but are infrequent with bupivacaine.However, identification of a short-acting local anesthetic to substitute forlidocaine for brief surgical procedures remains an important goal. Prilocaine is anamide local anesthetic with a duration of action similar to that of lidocaine.Accordingly, the present, prospective double-blind study compares prilocaine withlidocaine and bupivacaine with respect to duration of action and relative risk ofTNSs. METHODS: Ninety patients classified as American Society of Anesthesiologistsphysical status I or II who were scheduled for short gynecologic procedures underspinal anesthesia were randomly allocated to receive 2.5 ml 2% lidocaine in 7.5%glucose, 2% prilocaine in 7.5% glucose, or 0.5% bupivacaine in 7.5% glucose. Allsolutions were provided in blinded vials by the hospital pharmacy. Details of spinalpuncture, extension and regression of spinal block, and the times to reach dischargecriteria were noted. In the evening of postoperative day 1, patients were evaluatedfor TNSs by a physician unaware of the drug administered and the details of theanesthetic procedure. RESULTS: Nine of 30 patients receiving lidocaine experiencedTNSs, 1 of 30 patients receiving prilocaine (P = 0.03) had them, and none of 30patients receiving bupivacaine had TNSs. Times to ambulate and to void were similarafter lidocaine and prilocaine (150 vs. 165 min and 238 vs. 253 min, respectively)but prolonged after bupivacaine (200 and 299 min, respectively; P < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Prilocaine may be preferable to lidocaine for short surgical proceduresbecause it has a similar duration of action but a lower incidence of TNSs.
9523805	CID	lidocaine	Transient neurologic symptoms
9523805	CID	prilocaine	Transient neurologic symptoms

9245658|t|The role of nicotine in smoking-related cardiovascular disease.Nicotine activates the sympathetic nervous system and in this way could contributeto cardiovascular disease. Animal studies and mechanistic studies indicate thatnicotine could play a role in accelerating atherosclerosis, but evidence amonghumans is too inadequate to be definitive about such an effect. Almost certainly,nicotine via its hemodynamic effects contributes to acute cardiovascular events,although current evidence suggests that the effects of nicotine are much lessimportant than are the prothrombotic effects of cigarette smoking or the effects ofcarbon monoxide. Nicotine does not appear to enhance thrombosis among humans.Clinical studies of pipe smokers and people using transdermal nicotine support theidea that toxins other than nicotine are the most important causes of acutecardiovascular events. Finally, the dose response for cardiovascular events ofnicotine appears to be flat, suggesting that if nicotine is involved, adverseeffects might be seen with relatively low-level cigarette exposures.
9245658	CID	nicotine	cardiovascular disease
9245658	CID	nicotine	atherosclerosis

9034419|t|Seizure resulting from a venlafaxine overdose.OBJECTIVE: To report a case of venlafaxine overdose. CASE SUMMARY: A 40-year-oldwoman with major depression took an overdose of venlafaxine in an apparent suicideattempt. After the ingestion of 26 venlafaxine 50-mg tablets, the patientexperienced a witnessed generalized seizure. She was admitted to the medicalintensive care unit, venlafaxine was discontinued, and no further sequelae wereseen. DISCUSSION: To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of venlafaxineoverdose that resulted in a generalized seizure. Based on nonoverdosepharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of venlafaxine and the potential risks ofavailable interventions, no emergent therapy was instituted. CONCLUSIONS: Thevenlafaxine overdose in our patient resulted in a single episode of generalizedseizure but elicited no further sequelae.
9034419	CID	venlafaxine	Seizure
9034419	CID	venlafaxine	overdose

8829025|t|Effect of nifedipine on renal function in liver transplant recipients receivingtacrolimus.The effect of nifedipine on renal function in liver transplant recipients who werereceiving tacrolimus was evaluated between January 1992 and January 1996. Two groupsof patients receiving tacrolimus were compared over a period of 1 year, one groupcomprising hypertensive patients who were receiving nifedipine, and the othercomprising nonhypertensive patients not receiving nifedipine. The time fromtransplant to baseline was similar in all patients. Nifedipine significantlyimproved kidney function as indicated by a significant lowering of serum creatininelevels at 6 and 12 months. The observed positive impact of nifedipine on reducingthe nephrotoxicity associated with tacrolimus in liver transplant recipients shouldbe an important factor in selecting an agent to treat hypertension in thispopulation.
8829025	CID	tacrolimus	hypertensive

8437969|t|Sinus arrest associated with continuous-infusion cimetidine.The administration of intermittent intravenous infusions of cimetidine isinfrequently associated with the development of bradyarrhythmias. A 40-year-old manwith leukemia and no history of cardiac disease developed recurrent, brief episodesof apparent sinus arrest while receiving continuous-infusion cimetidine 50 mg/hour.The arrhythmias were temporally related to cimetidine administration, disappearedafter dechallenge, and did not recur during ranitidine treatment. This is the firstreported case of sinus arrest associated with continuous-infusion cimetidine.
8437969	CID	cimetidine	Sinus arrest
8437969	CID	cimetidine	bradyarrhythmias

7890216|t|Composition of gall bladder stones associated with octreotide: response to oralursodeoxycholic acid.Octreotide, an effective treatment for acromegaly, induces gall bladder stones in13-60% of patients. Because knowledge of stone composition is essential for studiesof their pathogenesis, treatment, and prevention, this was investigated by directand indirect methods in 14 octreotide treated acromegalic patients with gall stones.Chemical analysis of gall stones retrieved at cholecystectomy from two patients,showed that they contained 71% and 87% cholesterol by weight. In the remaining 12patients, localised computed tomography of the gall bladder showed that eight hadstones with maximum attenuation scores of < 100 Hounsfield units (values of <100 HU predict cholesterol rich, dissolvable stones). Gall bladder bile was obtainedby ultrasound guided, fine needle puncture from six patients. All six patients hadsupersaturated bile (mean (SEM) cholesterol saturation index of 1.19 (0.08) (range1.01-1.53)) and all had abnormally rapid cholesterol microcrystal nucleation times(< 4 days (range 1-4)), whilst in four, the bile contained cholesterolmicrocrystals immediately after sampling. Of the 12 patients considered for oralursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) treatment, two had a blocked cystic duct and were notstarted on UDCA while one was lost to follow up. After one year of treatment, fiveof the remaining nine patients showed either partial (n = 3) or complete (n = 2)gall stone dissolution, suggesting that their stones were cholesterol rich. Thiscorresponds, by actuarial (life table) analysis, to a combined gall stonedissolution rate of 58.3 (15.9%). In conclusion, octreotide induced gall stones aregenerally small, multiple, and cholesterol rich although, in common with spontaneousgall stone disease, at presentation some patients will have a blocked cystic ductand some gall stones containing calcium.
7890216	CID	octreotide	gall bladder stones

7468724|t|Cardiovascular complications associated with terbutaline treatment for pretermlabor.Severe cardiovascular complications occurred in eight of 160 patients treated withterbutaline for preterm labor. Associated corticosteroid therapy and twin gestationsappear to be predisposing factors. Potential mechanisms of the pathophysiology arebriefly discussed.
7468724	CID	terbutaline	Cardiovascular complications

7199841|t|Neurologic effects of subarachnoid administration of 2-chloroprocaine-CE,bupivacaine, and low pH normal saline in dogs.The purpose of this study was to evaluate the neurologic consequences ofdeliberate subarachnoid injection of large volumes of 2-chloroprocaine-CE inexperimental animals. The possible role of low pH as well as total volume aspotential factors in causing neurotoxicity was evaluated. The 65 dogs in the studyreceived injections in the subarachnoid space as follows: 6 to 8 ml of bupivacaine(N = 15), 2-chloroprocaine-CE (N = 20), low pH normal saline (pH 3.0) (N = 20), ornormal saline (N = 10). Of the 20 animals that received subarachnoid injection of2-chloroprocaine-CE seven (35%) developed hind-limb paralysis. None of the animalsthat received bupivacaine, normal saline, or normal saline titrated to a pH 3.0developed hind-limb paralysis. Of the 15 spinal cords of the animals that received2-chloroprocaine-CE, 13 showed subpial necrosis; the nerve roots and subarachnoidvessels were normal. The spinal cords of the animals that received bupivacaine, lowpH normal saline (pH 3.0), or normal saline did not show abnormal findings.
7199841	CID	2-chloroprocaine-CE	paralysis
7199841	CID	2-chloroprocaine-CE	subpial necrosis

6640832|t|Early adjuvant adriamycin in superficial bladder carcinoma.A multicenter study was performed in 110 patients with superficial transitionalcell carcinoma of the bladder. Adriamycin (50 mg/50 ml) was administeredintravesically within 24 h after transurethral resection of TA-T1 (O-A) bladdertumors. Instillation was repeated twice during the first week, then weekly duringthe first month and afterwards monthly for 1 year. The tolerance was evaluated inthese 110 patients, and 29 patients presented with local side-effects. In 24 ofthese patients chemical cystitis was severe enough for them to drop out of thestudy. No systemic side-effects were observed. Recurrence was studied in 82evaluable patients after 1 year of follow-up and in 72 patients followed for 2-3years (mean 32 months). Of the 82 patients studied after 1 year, 23 had primary and59 recurrent disease. Of the 82 evaluable patients, 50 did not show any recurrenceafter 1 year (61%), while 32 presented with one or more recurrences (39%). Of theserecurrences, 27 were T1 tumors while five progressed to more highly invasivelesions. In patients that were free of recurrence during the first year, 80%remained tumor-free during the 2- to 3-year follow-up period. Of the patientsdeveloping one or more recurrences during the first year, only 50% presented withfurther recurrence once the instillations were stopped. The beneficial effect ofAdriamycin appears obvious and might be related to the drug itself, the early andrepeated instillations after TUR, or both.
6640832	CID	adriamycin	cystitis

3560096|t|Hyperkalemia associated with sulindac therapy.Hyperkalemia has recently been recognized as a complication of nonsteroidalantiinflammatory agents (NSAID) such as indomethacin. Several recent studies havestressed the renal sparing features of sulindac, owing to its lack of interferencewith renal prostacyclin synthesis. We describe 4 patients in whom hyperkalemiaranging from 6.1 to 6.9 mEq/l developed within 3 to 8 days of sulindacadministration. In all of them normal serum potassium levels reached within 2 to 4days of stopping sulindac. As no other medications known to effect serum potassiumhad been given concomitantly, this course of events is suggestive of acause-and-effect relationship between sulindac and hyperkalemia. These observationsindicate that initial hopes that sulindac may not be associated with the adverserenal effects of other NSAID are probably not justified.
3560096	CID	indomethacin	Hyperkalemia
3560096	CID	sulindac	Hyperkalemia

3358181|t|Ventricular tachyarrhythmias during cesarean section after ritodrine therapy:interaction with anesthetics.This case illustrates that patients receiving ritodrine for preterm labor may riskinteractions between the residual betamimetic effects of ritodrine and the effectsof anesthetics during cesarean section. Such interactions may result in seriouscardiovascular complications even after cessation of an infusion of ritodrine.Preoperative assessment should focus on cardiovascular status and serum potassiumlevel. Delaying induction of anesthesia should be considered whenever possible.Careful fluid administration and cautious use of titrated doses of ephedrine areadvised. After delivery of the infant, there should be no contraindication to theuse of an alpha-adrenergic vasopressor such as phenylephrine to treat hypotensivepatients with tachycardia.
3358181	CID	ritodrine	Ventricular tachyarrhythmias

2887062|t|Immunohistochemical, electron microscopic and morphometric studies ofestrogen-induced rat prolactinomas after bromocriptine treatment.To clarify the effects of bromocriptine on prolactinoma cells in vivo,immunohistochemical, ultrastructural and morphometrical analyses were applied toestrogen-induced rat prolactinoma cells 1 h and 6 h after injection of bromocriptine(3 mg/kg of body weight). One h after treatment, serum prolactin levels decreasedmarkedly. Electron microscopy disclosed many secretory granules, slightly distortedrough endoplasmic reticulum, and partially dilated Golgi cisternae in theprolactinoma cells. Morphometric analysis revealed that the volume density ofsecretory granules increased, while the volume density of cytoplasmic microtubulesdecreased. These findings suggest that lowered serum prolactin levels in the earlyphase of bromocriptine treatment may result from an impaired secretion of prolactindue to decreasing numbers of cytoplasmic microtubules. At 6 h after injection, serumprolactin levels were still considerably lower than in controls. The prolactinomacells at this time were well granulated, with vesiculated rough endoplasmicreticulum and markedly dilated Golgi cisternae. Electron microscopicalimmunohistochemistry revealed positive reaction products noted on the secretorygranules, Golgi cisternae, and endoplasmic reticulum of the untreated ratprolactinoma cells. However, only secretory granules showed the positive reactionproducts for prolactin 6 h after bromocriptine treatment of the adenoma cells. Anincrease in the volume density of secretory granules and a decrease in the volumedensities of rough endoplasmic reticulum and microtubules was determined bymorphometric analysis, suggesting that bromocriptine inhibits protein synthesis aswell as bringing about a disturbance of the prolactin secretion.
2887062	CID	estrogen	prolactinomas

2425813|t|On two paradoxical side-effects of prednisolone in rats, ribosomal RNAbiosyntheses, and a mechanism of action.Liver enlargement and muscle wastage occurred in Wistar rats following thesubcutaneous administration of prednisolone. In the liver both the content of RNAand the biosynthesis of ribosomal RNA increased while both the RNA content andribosomal RNA biosynthesis were reduced in the gastrocnemius muscle. It is suggestedthat the drug acted in a selective and tissue-specific manner to enhance ribosomalRNA synthesis in the liver and depress such synthesis in the muscle. This viewsupports the contention that the liver and muscle are independent sites ofprednisolone action.
2425813	CID	prednisolone	Liver enlargement
2425813	CID	prednisolone	muscle wastage

2375138|t|Possible intramuscular midazolam-associated cardiorespiratory arrest and death.Midazolam hydrochloride is commonly used for dental or endoscopic procedures.Although generally consisted safe when given intramuscularly, intravenousadministration is known to cause respiratory and cardiovascular depression. Thisreport describes the first published case of cardiorespiratory arrest and deathassociated with intramuscular administration of midazolam. Information regardingmidazolam use is reviewed to provide recommendation for safe administration.
2375138	CID	midazolam	respiratory depression
2375138	CID	midazolam	cardiorespiratory arrest

2265898|t|Serial epilepsy caused by levodopa/carbidopa administration in two patients onhemodialysis.Two patients with similar clinical features are presented: both patients hadchronic renal failure, on hemodialysis for many years but recently begun on ahigh-flux dialyzer; both had been receiving a carbidopa/levodopa preparation; andboth had the onset of hallucinosis and recurrent seizures, which were refractory toanticonvulsants. The first patient died without a diagnosis; the second patient hada dramatic recovery following the administration of vitamin B6. Neither patient wasconsidered to have a renal state sufficiently severe enough to explain theirpresentation.
2265898	CID	levodopa/carbidopa	epilepsy

2071257|t|Effect of L-alpha-glyceryl-phosphorylcholine on amnesia caused by scopolamine.The present study was carried out to test the effects ofL-alpha-glycerylphosphorylcholine (L-alpha-GFC) on memory impairment induced byscopolamine in man. Thirty-two healthy young volunteers were randomly allocated tofour different groups. They were given a ten day pretreatment with eitherL-alpha-GFC or placebo, p.o., and on the eleventh day either scopolamine or placebo,i.m. Before and 0.5, 1, 2, 3, and 6 h after injection the subjects were givenattention and mnemonic tests. The findings of this study indicate that the drug isable to antagonize impairment of attention and memory induced by scopolamine.
2071257	CID	scopolamine	memory impairment

1592014|t|Seizures induced by the cocaine metabolite benzoylecgonine in rats.The half-life (t1/2) of cocaine is relatively short, but some of the consequencesof its use, such as seizures and strokes, can occur hours after exposure. This ledus to hypothesize that a metabolite of cocaine may be responsible for some of thosedelayed sequelae. We evaluated the potential of the major metabolite of cocaine,benzoylecgonine (BE), to cause seizures. Two separate equimolar doses (0.2 and 0.4mumol) of either cocaine or BE were injected ventricularly in unanesthetizedjuvenile rats. Treated rats were then evaluated for incidence, latency, and seizurepattern or for locomotor activity in animals without seizures. BE-Induced seizuresoccurred more frequently and had significantly longer latencies than those inducedby equimolar amounts of cocaine. Whereas cocaine-induced seizures were bestcharacterized as brief, generalized, and tonic and resulted in death, those inducedby BE were prolonged, often multiple and mixed in type, and rarely resulted indeath. Electrical recordings from the hippocampus showed a rhythmic progression inEEG frequency and voltage with clinical seizure expression. BE-Injected rats thatdid not have seizures had significantly more locomotor activity thancocaine-injected animals without seizures. The finding that cocaine- and BE-inducedseizures differ in several respects suggests more than one mechanism forcocaine-induced seizures and emphasizes the importance of a cocaine metabolite, BE.
1592014	CID	cocaine	Seizures
1592014	CID	benzoylecgonine	Seizures

1436384|t|Protection against amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity toward striatal dopamineneurons in rodents by LY274614, an excitatory amino acid antagonist.LY274614, 3SR,4aRS,6SR,8aRS-6-[phosphonomethyl]decahydr oisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid, has been described as a potent antagonist of theN-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor. Here its ability toantagonize the prolonged depletion of dopamine in the striatum by amphetamine iniprindole-treated rats is reported. A single 18.4 mg/kg (i.p.) dose of(+/-)-amphetamine hemisulfate, given to rats pretreated with iprindole, resulted inpersistent depletion of dopamine in the striatum 1 week later. This prolongeddepletion of dopamine in the striatum was antagonized by dizocilpine (MK-801, anon-competitive antagonist of NMDA receptors) or by LY274614 (a competitiveantagonist of NMDA receptors). The protective effect of LY274614 was dose-dependent,being maximum at 10-40 mgkg (i.p.). A 10 mg/kg dose of LY274614 was effective inantagonizing the depletion of dopamine in the striatum, when given as long as 8 hrprior to amphetamine but not when given 24 hr prior to amphetamine. Depletion ofdopamine in the striatum was also antagonized when LY274614 was given after theinjection of amphetamine; LY274614 protected when given up to 4 hr after but notwhen given 8 or 24 hr after amphetamine. The prolonged depletion of dopamine in thestriatum in mice, given multiple injections of methamphetamine, was also antagonizeddose-dependently and completely by LY274614. The data strengthen the evidence thatthe neurotoxic effect of amphetamine and related compounds toward nigrostriataldopamine neurons involves NMDA receptors and that LY274614 is an NMDA receptorantagonist with long-lasting in vivo effects in rats.
1436384	CID	amphetamine	neurotoxicity

1085609|t|Neonatal pyridoxine responsive convulsions due to isoniazid therapy.A 17-day-old infant on isoniazid therapy 13 mg/kg daily from birth because ofmaternal tuberculosis was admitted after 4 days of clonic fits. No underlyinginfective or biochemical cause could be found. The fits ceased within 4 hours ofadministering intramuscular pyridoxine, suggesting an aetiology of pyridoxinedeficiency secondary to isoniazid medication.
1085609	CID	isoniazid	convulsions

809711|t|Reversal by phenylephrine of the beneficial effects of intravenous nitroglycerinin patients with acute myocardial infarction.Nitroglycerin has been shown to reduce ST-segment elevation during acutemyocardial infarction, an effect potentiated in the dog by agents that reversenitroglycerin-induced hypotension. Our study was designed to determine the effectsof combined nitroglycerin and phenylephrine therapy. Ten patients with acutetransmural myocardial infarctions received intravenous nitroglycerin, sufficient toreduce mean arterial pressure from 107 +/- 6 to 85 +/- 6 mm Hg (P less than 0.001),for 60 minutes. Left ventricular filling pressure decreased from 19 +/- 2 to 11 +/-2 mm Hg (P less than 0.001). SigmaST, the sum of ST-segment elevations in 16precordial leads, decreased (P less than 0.02) with intravenous nitroglycerin.Subsequent addition of phenylephrine infusion, sufficient to re-elevate meanarterial pressure to 106 +/- 4 mm Hg (P less than 0.001) for 30 minutes, increasedleft ventricular filling pressure to 17 +/- 2 mm Hg (P less than 0.05) and alsosignificantly increased sigmaST (P less than 0.05). Our results suggest thataddition of phenylephrine to nitroglycerin is not beneficial in the treatment ofpatients with acute myocardial infarction.
809711	CID	nitroglycerin	hypotension

20621845|t|Elevation of ADAM10, ADAM17, MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression with media degenerationfeatures CaCl2-induced thoracic aortic aneurysm in a rat model.PURPOSE: This study was designed to establish a rat model of thoracic aorticaneurysm (TAA) by calcium chloride (CaCl(2))-induced arterial injury and to explorethe potential role of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM), matrixmetalloproteinases (MMPs) and their endogenous inhibitors (TIMPs) in TAA formation.METHODS: Thoracic aorta of male Sprague-Dawley rats was exposed to 0.5M CaCl(2) ornormal saline (NaCl). After 12weeks, animals were euthanized, and CaCl(2)-treated,CaCl(2)-untreated (n=12) and NaCl-treated aortic segments (n=12) were collected forhistological and molecular assessments. MMP-TIMP and ADAM mRNAs weresemi-quantitatively analyzed and protein expressions were determined byimmunohistochemistry. RESULTS: Despite similar external diameters amongCaCl(2)-treated, non-CaCl(2)-treated and NaCl-treated segments, aneurymal alteration(n=6, 50%), media degeneration with regional disruption, fragmentation of elasticfiber, and increased collagen deposition (n=12, 100%) were demonstrated inCaCl(2)-treated segments. MMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM-10 and ADAM-17 mRNA levels wereincreased in CaCl(2)-treated segments (all p<0.01), with trends of elevation inCaCl(2)-untreated segments, as compared with NaCl-treated segments.Immunohistochemistry displayed significantly increased expressions of MMP-2, MMP-9,ADAM-10 and ADAM-17 (all p<0.01) in intima and media for CaCl(2)-treatedsegments. TIMP mRNA and tissue levels did not differ obviously among the threeaortic segments. CONCLUSION: This study establishes a TAA model by periarterialCaCl(2) exposure in rats, and demonstrates a significant elevation of expression ofMMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM10 and ADAM17 in the pathogenesis of vascular remodeling.
20621845	CID	CaCl2	thoracic aortic aneurysm

19843802|t|When drugs disappear from the patient: elimination of intravenous medication byhemodiafiltration.Twenty-three hours after heart transplantation, life-threatening acute right heartfailure was diagnosed in a patient requiring continuous venovenous hemodiafiltration(CVVHDF). Increasing doses of catecholamines, sedatives, and muscle relaxantsadministered through a central venous catheter were ineffective. However, a bolus ofepinephrine injected through an alternative catheter provoked a hypertensive crisis.Thus, interference with the central venous infusion by the dialysis catheter wassuspected. The catheters were changed, and hemodynamics stabilized at lowercatecholamine doses. When the effects of IV drugs are inadequate in patientsreceiving CVVHDF, interference with adjacent catheters resulting in elimination ofthe drug by CVVHDF should be suspected.
19843802	CID	epinephrine	hypertensive

19473225|t|Long-term glutamate supplementation failed to protect against peripheralneurotoxicity of paclitaxel.Toxic peripheral neuropathy is still a significant limiting factor forchemotherapy with paclitaxel (PAC), although glutamate and its closely related aminoacid glutamine were claimed to ameliorate PAC neurotoxicity. This pilot trial aimedto evaluate the role of glutamate supplementation for preventing PAC-inducedperipheral neuropathy in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded clinicaland electro-diagnostic study. Forty-three ovarian cancer patients were available foranalysis following six cycles of the same PAC-containing regimen: 23 had beensupplemented by glutamate all along the treatment period, at a daily dose of threetimes 500 mg (group G), and 20 had received a placebo (group P). Patients wereevaluated by neurological examinations, questionnaires and sensory-motor nerveconduction studies. There was no significant difference in the frequency of signs orsymptoms between the two groups although neurotoxicity symptoms presented mostlywith lower scores of severity in group G. However, this difference reachedstatistical significance only with regard to reported pain sensation (P = 0.011).Also the frequency of abnormal electro-diagnostic findings showed similarity betweenthe two groups (G: 7/23 = 30.4%; P: 6/20 = 30%). This pilot study leads to theconclusion that glutamate supplementation at the chosen regimen fails to protectagainst peripheral neurotoxicity of PAC.
19473225	CID	paclitaxel	peripheral neurotoxicity

19387625|t|Attentional modulation of perceived pain intensity in capsaicin-induced secondaryhyperalgesia.Perceived pain intensity is modulated by attention. However, it is not known thathow pain intensity ratings are affected by attention in capsaicin-induced secondaryhyperalgesia. Here we show that perceived pain intensity in secondary hyperalgesiais decreased when attention is distracted away from the painful pinprick stimuluswith a visual task. Furthermore, it was found that the magnitude of attentionalmodulation in secondary hyperalgesia is very similar to that of capsaicin-untreated,control condition. Our findings, showing no interaction between capsaicin treatmentand attentional modulation suggest that capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia andattention might affect mechanical pain through independent mechanisms.
19387625	CID	capsaicin	hyperalgesia

19211690|t|Testosterone-dependent hypertension and upregulation of intrarenal angiotensinogenin Dahl salt-sensitive rats.Blood pressure (BP) is more salt sensitive in men than in premenopausal women. InDahl salt-sensitive rats (DS), high-salt (HS) diet increases BP more in males thanfemales. In contrast to the systemic renin-angiotensin system, which is suppressedin response to HS in male DS, intrarenal angiotensinogen expression is increased,and intrarenal levels of ANG II are not suppressed. In this study, the hypothesiswas tested that there is a sexual dimorphism in HS-induced upregulation ofintrarenal angiotensinogen mediated by testosterone that also causes increases in BPand renal injury. On a low-salt (LS) diet, male DS had higher levels of intrarenalangiotensinogen mRNA than females. HS diet for 4 wk increased renal corticalangiotensinogen mRNA and protein only in male DS, which was prevented by castration.Ovariectomy of female DS had no effect on intrarenal angiotensinogen expression oneither diet. Radiotelemetric BP was similar between males and castrated rats on LSdiet. HS diet for 4 wk caused a progressive increase in BP, protein and albuminexcretion, and glomerular sclerosis in male DS rats, which were attenuated bycastration. Testosterone replacement in castrated DS rats increased BP, renalinjury, and upregulation of renal angiotensinogen associated with HS diet.Testosterone contributes to the development of hypertension and renal injury in maleDS rats on HS diet possibly through upregulation of the intrarenal renin-angiotensinsystem.
19211690	CID	salt	renal injury

18703024|t|Prenatal protein deprivation alters dopamine-mediated behaviors and dopaminergicand glutamatergic receptor binding.Epidemiological evidence indicates that prenatal nutritional deprivation mayincrease the risk of schizophrenia. The goal of these studies was to use an animalmodel to examine the effects of prenatal protein deprivation on behaviors andreceptor binding with relevance to schizophrenia. We report that prenatally proteindeprived (PD) female rats showed an increased stereotypic response to apomorphineand an increased locomotor response to amphetamine in adulthood. These differenceswere not observed during puberty. No changes in haloperidol-induced catalepsy orMK-801-induced locomotion were seen following PD. In addition, PD female rats showedincreased (3)H-MK-801 binding in the striatum and hippocampus, but not in thecortex. PD female rats also showed increased (3)H-haloperidol binding and decreaseddopamine transporter binding in striatum. No statistically significant changes inbehavior or receptor binding were found in PD males with the exception of increased(3)H-MK-801 binding in cortex. This animal model may be useful to explore themechanisms by which prenatal nutritional deficiency enhances risk for schizophreniain humans and may also have implications for developmental processes leading todifferential sensitivity to drugs of abuse.
18703024	CID	haloperidol	catalepsy

18631865|t|mToR inhibitors-induced proteinuria: mechanisms, significance, and management.Massive urinary protein excretion has been observed after conversion fromcalcineurin inhibitors to mammalian target of rapamycin (mToR) inhibitors,especially sirolimus, in renal transplant recipients with chronic allograftnephropathy. Because proteinuria is a major predictive factor of poortransplantation outcome, many studies focused on this adverse event during the pastyears. Whether proteinuria was due to sirolimus or only a consequence of calcineurininhibitors withdrawal remained unsolved until high range proteinuria has beenobserved during sirolimus therapy in islet transplantation and in patients whoreceived sirolimus de novo. Podocyte injury and focal segmental glomerulosclerosishave been related to mToR inhibition in some patients, but the pathways underlyingthese lesions remain hypothetic. We discuss herein the possible mechanisms and thesignificance of mToR blockade-induced proteinuria.
18631865	CID	rapamycin	proteinuria

18162529|t|Hypothalamic prolactin receptor messenger ribonucleic acid levels, prolactinsignaling, and hyperprolactinemic inhibition of pulsatile luteinizing hormonesecretion are dependent on estradiol.Hyperprolactinemia can reduce fertility and libido. Although central prolactinactions are thought to contribute to this, the mechanisms are poorly understood. Wefirst tested whether chronic hyperprolactinemia inhibited two neuroendocrineparameters necessary for female fertility: pulsatile LH secretion and theestrogen-induced LH surge. Chronic hyperprolactinemia induced by the dopamineantagonist sulpiride caused a 40% reduction LH pulse frequency in ovariectomizedrats, but only in the presence of chronic low levels of estradiol. Sulpiride did notaffect the magnitude of a steroid-induced LH surge or the percentage of GnRH neuronsactivated during the surge. Estradiol is known to influence expression of the longform of prolactin receptors (PRL-R) and components of prolactin's signalingpathway. To test the hypothesis that estrogen increases PRL-R expression andsensitivity to prolactin, we next demonstrated that estradiol greatly augmentsprolactin-induced STAT5 activation. Lastly, we measured PRL-R and suppressor ofcytokine signaling (SOCS-1 and -3 and CIS, which reflect the level of prolactinsignaling) mRNAs in response to sulpiride and estradiol. Sulpiride induced onlySOCS-1 in the medial preoptic area, where GnRH neurons are regulated, but in thearcuate nucleus and choroid plexus, PRL-R, SOCS-3, and CIS mRNA levels were alsoinduced. Estradiol enhanced these effects on SOCS-3 and CIS. Interestingly,estradiol also induced PRL-R, SOCS-3, and CIS mRNA levels independently. These datashow that GnRH pulse frequency is inhibited by chronic hyperprolactinemia in asteroid-dependent manner. They also provide evidence for estradiol-dependent andbrain region-specific regulation of PRL-R expression and signaling responses byprolactin.
18162529	CID	sulpiride	hyperprolactinemic

17879945|t|Estrogen prevents cholesteryl ester accumulation in macrophages induced by the HIVprotease inhibitor ritonavir.Individuals with HIV can now live long lives with drug therapy that often includesprotease inhibitors such as ritonavir. Many patients, however, develop negativelong-term side effects such as premature atherosclerosis. We have previouslydemonstrated that ritonavir treatment increases atherosclerotic lesion formation inmale mice to a greater extent than in female mice. Furthermore, peripheral bloodmonocytes isolated from ritonavir-treated females had less cholesteryl esteraccumulation. In the present study, we have investigated the molecular mechanisms bywhich female hormones influence cholesterol metabolism in macrophages in response tothe HIV protease inhibitor ritonavir. We have utilized the human monocyte cell line,THP-1 as a model to address this question. Briefly, cells were differentiated for 72h with 100 nM PMA to obtain a macrophage-like phenotype in the presence or absenceof 1 nM 17beta-estradiol (E2), 100 nM progesterone or vehicle (0.01% ethanol). Cellswere then treated with 30 ng/ml ritonavir or vehicle in the presence of aggregatedLDL for 24 h. Cell extracts were harvested, and lipid or total RNA was isolated. E2decreased the accumulation of cholesteryl esters in macrophages following ritonavirtreatment. Ritonavir increased the expression of the scavenger receptor, CD36 mRNA,responsible for the uptake of LDL. Additionally, ritonavir treatment selectivelyincreased the relative levels of PPARgamma mRNA, a transcription factor responsiblefor the regulation of CD36 mRNA expression. Treatment with E2, however, failed toprevent these increases at the mRNA level. E2 did, however, significantly suppressCD36 protein levels as measured by fluorescent immunocytochemistry. This datasuggests that E2 modifies the expression of CD36 at the level of protein expressionin monocyte-derived macrophages resulting in reduced cholesteryl ester accumulationfollowing ritonavir treatment.
17879945	CID	ritonavir	premature atherosclerosis

17437408|t|Upregulation of brain expression of P-glycoprotein in MRP2-deficient TR(-) ratsresembles seizure-induced up-regulation of this drug efflux transporter in normalrats.PURPOSE: The multidrug resistance protein 2 (MRP2) is a drug efflux transporterthat is expressed predominantly at the apical domain of hepatocytes but seems alsoto be expressed at the apical membrane of brain capillary endothelial cells thatform the blood-brain barrier (BBB). MRP2 is absent in the transport-deficient(TR(-)) Wistar rat mutant, so that this rat strain was very helpful in definingsubstrates of MRP2 by comparing tissue concentrations or functional activities ofcompounds in MRP2-deficient rats with those in transport-competent Wistar rats. Byusing this strategy to study the involvement of MRP2 in brain access ofantiepileptic drugs (AEDs), we recently reported that phenytoin is a substrate forMRP2 in the BBB. However, one drawback of such studies in genetically deficient ratsis the fact that compensatory changes with upregulation of other transporters canoccur. This prompted us to study the brain expression of P-glycoprotein (Pgp), amajor drug efflux transporter in many tissues, including the BBB, in TR(-) ratscompared with nonmutant (wild-type) Wistar rats. METHODS: The expression of MRP2 andPgp in brain and liver sections of TR(-) rats and normal Wistar rats was determinedwith immunohistochemistry, by using a novel, highly selective monoclonal MRP2antibody and the monoclonal Pgp antibody C219, respectively. RESULTS:Immunofluorescence staining with the MRP2 antibody was found to label a high numberof microvessels throughout the brain in normal Wistar rats, whereas such labelingwas absent in TR(-) rats. TR(-) rats exhibited a significant up-regulation of Pgp inbrain capillary endothelial cells compared with wild-type controls. No such obviousupregulation of Pgp was observed in liver sections. A comparable overexpression ofPgp in the BBB was obtained after pilocarpine-induced seizures in wild-type Wistarrats. Experiments with systemic administration of the Pgp substrate phenobarbitaland the selective Pgp inhibitor tariquidar in TR(-) rats substantiated that Pgp isfunctional and compensates for the lack of MRP2 in the BBB. CONCLUSIONS: The data onTR(-) rats indicate that Pgp plays an important role in the compensation of MRP2deficiency in the BBB. Because such a compensatory mechanism most likely occurs toreduce injury to the brain from cytotoxic compounds, the present data substantiatethe concept that MRP2 performs a protective role in the BBB. Furthermore, our datasuggest that TR(-) rats are an interesting tool to study consequences ofoverexpression of Pgp in the BBB on access of drugs in the brain, without the needof inducing seizures or other Pgp-enhancing events for this purpose.
17437408	CID	pilocarpine	seizure

17242861|t|Use of chromosome substitution strains to identify seizure susceptibility loci inmice.Seizure susceptibility varies among inbred mouse strains. Chromosome substitutionstrains (CSS), in which a single chromosome from one inbred strain (donor) has beentransferred onto a second strain (host) by repeated backcrossing, may be used toidentify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that contribute to seizure susceptibility.QTLs for susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced seizures, a model of temporal lobeepilepsy, have not been reported, and CSS have not previously been used to localizeseizure susceptibility genes. We report QTLs identified using a B6 (host) x A/J(donor) CSS panel to localize genes involved in susceptibility topilocarpine-induced seizures. Three hundred fifty-five adult male CSS mice, 58 B6,and 39 A/J were tested for susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced seizures. Higheststage reached and latency to each stage were recorded for all mice. B6 mice wereresistant to seizures and slower to reach stages compared to A/J mice. The CSS forChromosomes 10 and 18 progressed to the most severe stages, diverging dramaticallyfrom the B6 phenotype. Latencies to stages were also significantly shorter for CSS10and CSS18 mice. CSS mapping suggests seizure susceptibility loci on mouseChromosomes 10 and 18. This approach provides a framework for identifyingpotentially novel homologous candidate genes for human temporal lobe epilepsy.
17242861	CID	pilocarpine	temporal lobe epilepsy

16337777|t|Investigation of mitochondrial involvement in the experimental model of epilepsyinduced by pilocarpine.Mitochondrial abnormalities have been associated with several aspects ofepileptogenesis, such as energy generation, control of cell death, neurotransmittersynthesis, and free radical (FR) production. Increased production of FRs may causemtDNA damage leading to decreased activities of oxidative phosphorylation complexescontaining mtDNA-encoded subunits. In this study, we investigated whether increasedgeneration of FR during status epilepticus would be sufficient to provokeabnormalities in mtDNA and in the expression and activity of cytochrome c oxidase(CCO), complex IV of the respiratory chain, in the chronic phase of the pilocarpinemodel of temporal lobe epilepsy. DNA analysis revealed low amounts of a 4.8 kb mtDNAdeletion but with no differences in frequency or quantity in the control andexperimental groups. We did not find abnormalities in the expression anddistribution of an mtDNA-encoded subunit of CCO (CCO-I) or a relative decrease inCCO-I when compared with nuclear-encoded subunits (CCO-IV and SDH-fp). Noabnormality in CCO activity was observed through histochemistry. Although evidencesof mitochondrial abnormalities were found in previously published studies, ourresults do not suggest that the FRs, generated during the acute phase, determinedimportant abnormalities in mtDNA, in expression of CCO-I, and in CCO activity.
16337777	CID	pilocarpine	temporal lobe epilepsy

15859940|t|Causes of acute thrombotic microangiopathy in patients receiving kidneytransplantation.OBJECTIVES: Thrombotic microangiopathy is a well-known problem in patientsfollowing renal transplantation. In postrenal transplantation, thromboticmicroangiopathy is often a reflection of hemolytic uremic syndrome. We aimed todetermine the causes of thrombotic microangiopathy in a population of renaltransplantation recipients and discuss the literature. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Weinvestigated the causes of thrombotic microangiopathy during a 1-year period, fromJune 2003 to June 2004, at the King Fahad National Guard Hospital in Riyadh, SaudiArabia, by reviewing the slides of all transplant biopsies (n=25) performed duringthis interval. Pre- and posttransplant crossmatching was done when possible.RESULTS: Five cases of thrombotic microangiopathy were found. Three of these caseswere from the 25 transplantations performed at King Fahad National Guard Hospital,while the other 2 transplantations had been performed abroad and were referred to usfor follow-up. Three cases were related to cyclosporine, and 1 case was secondary toboth cyclosporine and tacrolimus. The fifth case had features of thromboticmicroangiopathy related to an antiphospholipid syndrome in a patient with systemiclupus erythematosus. CONCLUSIONS: In the literature, the most-frequent cause ofhemolytic uremic syndrome in patients following renal transplantation is recurrenceof the hemolytic uremic syndrome. Other causes include drug-related (cyclosporine,tacrolimus) toxicity, procoagulant status, and antibody-mediated rejection. We foundthat the most-frequent cause of thrombotic microangiopathy was drug related,secondary mainly to cyclosporine. In the current study, the frequency of thromboticmicroangiopathy was similar to the percentage reported in the literature (20%).
15859940	CID	cyclosporine	thrombotic microangiopathy

15188772|t|Severe reversible left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction due toaccidental iatrogenic epinephrine overdose.Catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy due to chronic excess of endogenouscatecholamines has been recognized for decades as a clinical phenomenon. Incontrast, reports of myocardial dysfunction due to acute iatrogenic overdose arerare. A 35-year-old woman whose cervix uteri was inadvertently injected with 8 mg ofepinephrine developed myocardial stunning that was characterized by severehemodynamic compromise, profound, albeit transient, left ventricular systolic anddiastolic dysfunction, and only modestly elevated biochemical markers of myocardialnecrosis. Our case illustrates the serious consequences of medical errors that canbe avoided through improved medication labeling and staff supervision.
15188772	CID	epinephrine	myocardial stunning

15130900|t|Urinary bladder cancer in Wegener's granulomatosis: risks and relation tocyclophosphamide.OBJECTIVE: To assess and characterise the risk of bladder cancer, and its relationto cyclophosphamide, in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis. METHODS: In thepopulation based, nationwide Swedish Inpatient Register a cohort of 1065 patientswith Wegener's granulomatosis, 1969-95, was identified. Through linkage withthe Swedish Cancer Register, all subjects in this cohort diagnosed with bladdercancer were identified. Nested within the cohort, a matched case-control study wasperformed to estimate the association between cyclophosphamide and bladder cancerusing odds ratios (ORs) as relative risk. In the cohort the cumulative risk ofbladder cancer after Wegener's granulomatosis, and the relative prevalence of ahistory of bladder cancer at the time of diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis,were also estimated. RESULTS: The median cumulative doses of cyclophosphamide amongcases (n = 11) and controls (n = 25) were 113 g and 25 g, respectively. The risk ofbladder cancer doubled for every 10 g increment in cyclophosphamide (OR = 2.0, 95%confidence interval (CI) 0.8 to 4.9). Treatment duration longer than 1 year wasassociated with an eightfold increased risk (OR = 7.7, 95% CI 0.9 to 69). Theabsolute risk for bladder cancer in the cohort reached 10% 16 years after diagnosisof Wegener's granulomatosis, and a history of bladder cancer was(non-significantly) twice as common as expected at the time of diagnosis ofWegener's granulomatosis. CONCLUSION: The results indicate a dose-responserelationship between cyclophosphamide and the risk of bladder cancer, highcumulative risks in the entire cohort, and also the possibility of risk factorsoperating even before Wegener's granulomatosis.
15130900	CID	cyclophosphamide	Urinary bladder cancer

12707296|t|L-arginine transport in humans with cortisol-induced hypertension.A deficient L-arginine-nitric oxide system is implicated in cortisol-inducedhypertension. We investigate whether abnormalities in L-arginine uptake contributeto this deficiency. Eight healthy men were recruited. Hydrocortisone acetate (50 mg)was given orally every 6 hours for 24 hours after a 5-day fixed-salt diet (150mmol/d). Crossover studies were performed 2 weeks apart. Thirty milliliters of bloodwas obtained for isolation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells after eachtreatment period. L-arginine uptake was assessed in mononuclear cells incubated withL-arginine (1 to 300 micromol/L), incorporating 100 nmol/L [3H]-l-arginine for aperiod of 5 minutes at 37 degrees C. Forearm [3H]-L-arginine extraction wascalculated after infusion of [3H]-L-arginine into the brachial artery at a rate of100 nCi/min for 80 minutes. Deep forearm venous samples were collected fordetermination of L-arginine extraction. Plasma cortisol concentrations weresignificantly raised during the active phase (323+/-43 to 1082+/-245 mmol/L,P<0.05). Systolic blood pressure was elevated by an average of 7 mm Hg. NeitherL-arginine transport into mononuclear cells (placebo vs active, 26.3+/-3.6 vs29.0+/-2.1 pmol/10 000 cells per 5 minutes, respectively, at an l-arginineconcentration of 300 micromol/L) nor L-arginine extraction in the forearm (at 80minutes, placebo vs active, 1 868 904+/-434 962 vs 2 013 910+/-770 619disintegrations per minute) was affected by cortisol treatment; ie, that L-arginineuptake is not affected by short-term cortisol treatment. We conclude thatcortisol-induced increases in blood pressure are not associated with abnormalitiesin the l-arginine transport system.
12707296	CID	Hydrocortisone acetate	hypertension

12695819|t|MR imaging with quantitative diffusion mapping of tacrolimus-induced neurotoxicityin organ transplant patients.Our objective was to investigate brain MR imaging findings and the utility ofdiffusion-weighted (DW) imaging in organ transplant patients who developedneurologic symptoms during tacrolimus therapy. Brain MR studies, including DWimaging, were prospectively performed in 14 organ transplant patients receivingtacrolimus who developed neurologic complications. In each patient who hadabnormalities on the initial MR study, a follow-up MR study was performed 1 monthlater. Apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values on the initial MR study werecorrelated with reversibility of the lesions. Of the 14 patients, 5 (35.7%) hadwhite matter abnormalities, 1 (7.1%) had putaminal hemorrhage, and 8 (57.1%) hadnormal findings on initial MR images. Among the 5 patients with white matterabnormalities, 4 patients (80.0%) showed higher than normal ADC values on initial MRimages, and all showed complete resolution on follow-up images. The remaining 1patient (20.0%) showed lower than normal ADC value and showed incomplete resolutionwith cortical laminar necrosis. Diffusion-weighted imaging may be useful inpredicting the outcomes of the lesions of tacrolimus-induced neurotoxicity.
12695819	CID	tacrolimus	white matter abnormalities

12596116|t|Octreotide-induced hypoxemia and pulmonary hypertension in premature neonates.The authors report 2 cases of premature neonates who had enterocutaneous fistulacomplicating necrotizing enterocolitis. Pulmonary hypertension developed afteradministration of a somatostatin analogue, octreotide, to enhance resolution of thefistula. The authors discuss the mechanism of the occurrence of this complicationand recommend caution of its use in high-risk premature neonates.
12596116	CID	Octreotide	pulmonary hypertension

11875660|t|Sequential observations of exencephaly and subsequent morphological changes bymouse exo utero development system: analysis of the mechanism of transformation fromexencephaly to anencephaly.Anencephaly has been suggested to develop from exencephaly; however, there islittle direct experimental evidence to support this, and the mechanism oftransformation remains unclear. We examined this theory using the exo uterodevelopment system that allows direct and sequential observations of mid- tolate-gestation mouse embryos. We observed the exencephaly induced by 5-azacytidineat embryonic day 13.5 (E13.5), let the embryos develop exo utero until E18.5, andre-observed the same embryos at E18.5. We confirmed several cases of transformationfrom exencephaly to anencephaly. However, in many cases, the exencephalic braintissue was preserved with more or less reduction during this period. To analyze thetransformation patterns, we classified the exencephaly by size and shape of theexencephalic tissue into several types at E13.5 and E18.5. It was found that thetransformation of exencephalic tissue was not simply size-dependent, and all casesof anencephaly at E18.5 resulted from embryos with a large amount of exencephalictissue at E13.5. Microscopic observation showed the configuration of exencephaly atE13.5, frequent hemorrhaging and detachment of the neural plate from surfaceectoderm in the exencephalic head at E15.5, and multiple modes of reduction in theexencephalic tissue at E18.5. From observations of the vasculature, altereddistribution patterns of vessels were identified in the exencephalic head. Thesefindings suggest that overgrowth of the exencephalic neural tissue causes thealtered distribution patterns of vessels, subsequent peripheral circulatory failureand/or hemorrhaging in various parts of the exencephalic head, leading to themultiple modes of tissue reduction during transformation from exencephaly toanencephaly.
11875660	CID	5-azacytidine	anencephaly

11166519|t|Acute cocaine-induced seizures: differential sensitivity of six inbred mousestrains.Mature male and female mice from six inbred stains were tested for susceptibilityto behavioral seizures induced by a single injection of cocaine. Cocaine wasinjected ip over a range of doses (50-100 mg/kg) and behavior was monitored for 20minutes. Seizure end points included latency to forelimb or hindlimb clonus, latencyto clonic running seizure and latency to jumping bouncing seizure. A range of strainspecific sensitivities was documented with A/J and SJL mice being most sensitive andC57BL/6J most resistant. DBA/2J, BALB/cByJ and NZW/LacJ strains exhibitedintermediate sensitivity. EEG recordings were made in SJL, A/J and C57BL/6J micerevealing a close correspondence between electrical activity and behavior.Additionally, levels of cocaine determined in hippocampus and cortex were notdifferent between sensitive and resistant strains. Additional studies of thesemurine strains may be useful for investigating genetic influences on cocaine-inducedseizures.
11166519	CID	cocaine	seizures

8701950|t|Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia complicating FK506 (tacrolimus) therapy.We describe 3 episodes of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA) in 2 solidorgan recipients under FK506 (tacrolimus) therapy. In both cases, discontinuation ofFK506 and treatment with plasma exchange, fresh frozen plasma replacement,corticosteroids, aspirin, and dipyridamole led to resolution of MAHA. In onepatient, reintroduction of FK506 led to rapid recurrence of MAHA. FK506-associatedMAHA is probably rare but physicians must be aware of this severe complication. Inour experience and according to the literature, FK506 does not seem to cross-reactwith cyclosporin A (CyA), an immuno-suppressive drug already known to induce MAHA.
8701950	CID	FK506	Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia

7292072|t|Variant ventricular tachycardia in desipramine toxicity.We report a case of variant ventricular tachycardia induced by desipraminetoxicity. Unusual features of the arrhythmia are repetitive group beating,progressive shortening of the R-R interval, progressive widening of the QRS complexwith eventual failure of intraventricular conduction, and changes in direction ofthe QRS axis. Recognition of variant ventricular tachycardia is important becausetherapy differs from that of classic ventricular tachycardia.
7292072	CID	desipramine	ventricular tachycardia

4027862|t|Desipramine-induced delirium at "subtherapeutic" concentrations: a casereport.An elderly patient treated with low dose Desipramine developed a delirium whileher plasma level was in the "subtherapeutic" range. Delirium, which may beinduced by tricyclic drug therapy in the elderly, can be caused by tricyclics withlow anticholinergic potency. Therapeutic ranges for antidepressants that have beenderived from general adult population studies may not be appropriate for theelderly. Further studies of specifically elderly patients are now required toestablish safer and more appropriate guidelines for drug therapy.
4027862	CID	Desipramine	delirium

2484011|t|Mouse strain-dependent effect of amantadine on motility and brain biogenic amines.The effect of amantadine hydrochloride, injected i.p. in 6 increments of 100 mg/kgeach over 30 hr, on mouse motility and whole brain content of selected biogenicamines and major metabolites was studied in 4 strains of mice. These were the albinoSprague-Dawley ICR and BALB/C, the black C57BL/6 and the brown CDF-I mouse strains.Amantadine treatment produced a biphasic effect on mouse motility. The initial doseof amantadine depressed locomotor activity in all mouse strains studied with theBALB/C mice being the most sensitive. Subsequent amantadine treatments producedenhancement of motility from corresponding control in all mouse strains with theBALB/C mice being the least sensitive. The locomotor activity was decreased fromcorresponding controls in all strains studied, except for the ICR mice, during anovernight drug-free period following the fourth amantadine treatment.Readministration of amantadine, after a drug-free overnight period, increasedmotility from respective saline control in all strains with exception of the BALB/Cmice where suppression of motility occurred. Treatment with amantadine did not alterwhole brain dopamine levels but decreased the amounts of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylaceticacid in the BALB/C mice compared to saline control. Conversely, brainnormetanephrine concentration was increased from saline control by amantadine in theBALB/C mice. The results suggest a strain-dependent effect of amantadine on motilityand indicate a differential response to the acute and multiple dose regimens used.The BALB/C mouse was the most sensitive strain and could serve as the strain ofchoice for evaluating the side effects of amantadine. The biochemical results ofbrain biogenic amines of BALB/C mouse strain suggest a probable decrease ofcatecholamine turnover rate and/or metabolism by monoamine oxidase and a resultingincrease in O-methylation of norepinephrine which may account for a behavioraldepression caused by amantadine in the BALB/C mice.
2484011	CID	amantadine	suppression of motility

2396046|t|No enhancement by phenobarbital of the hepatocarcinogenicity of a choline-devoiddiet in the rat.An experiment was performed to test whether inclusion of phenobarbital in acholine-devoid diet would increase the hepatocarcinogenicity of the diet. Groups of5-week old male Fischer-344 rats were fed for 7-25 months semipurifiedcholine-devoid or choline-supplemented diets, containing or not 0.06% phenobarbital.No hepatic preneoplastic nodules or hepatocellular carcinomas developed in rats fedthe plain choline-supplemented diet, while one preneoplastic nodule and onehepatocellular carcinoma developed in two rats fed the same diet containingphenobarbital. The incidence of preneoplastic nodules and of hepatocellularcarcinomas was 10% and 37%, respectively, in rats fed the plain choline-devoid diet,and 17% and 30%, in rats fed the phenobarbital-containing choline-devoid diet. Theresults evinced no enhancement of the hepatocarcinogenicity of the choline-devoiddiet by phenobarbital. Sporadic neoplastic lesions were observed in organs otherthan the liver of some of the animals, irrespective of the diet fed.
2396046	CID	choline	hepatocellular carcinomas

2008831|t|Effect of direct intracoronary administration of methylergonovine in patients withand without variant angina.The effects of intracoronary administration of methylergonovine were studied in 21patients with variant angina and 22 patients with atypical chest pain and in otherswithout angina pectoris (control group). Methylergonovine was administeredcontinuously at a rate of 10 micrograms/min up to 50 micrograms. In all patientswith variant angina, coronary spasm was provoked at a mean dose of 28 +/- 13micrograms (mean +/- SD). In the control group neither ischemic ST change norlocalized spasm occurred. The basal tone of the right coronary artery wassignificantly lower than that of the left coronary artery. The percentage ofvasoconstriction of the right coronary artery was significantly higher than that ofthe left coronary artery. These results suggest that spasm provocation tests, whichuse an intracoronary injection of a relatively low dose of methylergonovine, have ahigh sensitivity in variant angina and the vasoreactivity of the right coronaryartery may be greater than that of the other coronary arteries.
2008831	CID	methylergonovine	coronary spasm

1732369|t|Dobutamine stress echocardiography: a sensitive indicator of diminished myocardialfunction in asymptomatic doxorubicin-treated long-term survivors of childhoodcancer.Doxorubicin is an effective anticancer chemotherapeutic agent known to cause acuteand chronic cardiomyopathy. To develop a more sensitive echocardiographic screeningtest for cardiac damage due to doxorubicin, a cohort study was performed usingdobutamine infusion to differentiate asymptomatic long-term survivors of childhoodcancer treated with doxorubicin from healthy control subjects. Echocardiographicdata from the experimental group of 21 patients (mean age 16 +/- 5 years) treatedfrom 1.6 to 14.3 years (median 5.3) before this study with 27 to 532 mg/m2 ofdoxorubicin (mean 196) were compared with echocardiographic data from 12 normalage-matched control subjects. Graded dobutamine infusions of 0.5, 2.5, 5 and 10micrograms/kg per min were administered. Echocardiographic Doppler studies wereperformed before infusion and after 15 min of infusion at each rate. Dobutamineinfusion at 10 micrograms/kg per min was discontinued after six studies secondary toa 50% incidence rate of adverse symptoms. The most important findings were thatcompared with values in control subjects, end-systolic left ventricular posteriorwall dimension and percent of left ventricular posterior wall thickening indoxorubicin-treated patients were decreased at baseline study and these findingswere more clearly delineated with dobutamine stimulation. End-systolic leftventricular posterior wall dimension at baseline for the doxorubicin-treated groupwas 11 +/- 1.9 mm versus 13.1 +/- 1.5 mm for control subjects (p less than 0.01).End-systolic left ventricular posterior wall dimension at the 5-micrograms/kg permin dobutamine infusion for the doxorubicin-treated group was 14.1 +/- 2.4 mm versus19.3 +/- 2.6 mm for control subjects (p less than 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250WORDS)
1732369	CID	doxorubicin	cardiomyopathy

234669|t|Effects of aminophylline on the threshold for initiating ventricular fibrillationduring respiratory failure.Cardiac arrhythmias have frequently been reported in association with respiratoryfailure. The possible additive role of pharmacologic agents in precipitating cardiacdisturbances in patients with respiratory failure has only recently been emphasized.The effects of aminophylline on the ventricular fibrillation threshold during normalacid-base conditions and during respiratory failure were studied in anesthetizedopen chest dogs. The ventricular fibrillation threshold was measured by passing agated train of 12 constant current pulses through the ventricular myocardium duringthe vulnerable period of the cardiac cycle. During the infusion of aminophylline,the ventricular fibrillation threshold was reduced by 30 to 40 percent of thecontrol when pH and partial pressures of oxygen (PO2) and carbon dioxide (CO2) werekept within normal limits. When respiratory failure was produced by hypoventilation(pH 7.05 to 7.25; PC02 70 to 100 mm Hg: P02 20 to 40 mm Hg), infusion ofaminophylline resulted in an even greater decrease in ventricular fibrillationthreshold to 60 percent of the control level. These experiments suggest thatalthough many factors may contribute to the increased incidence of ventriculararrhythmias in respiratory failure, pharmacologic agents, particularlyaminophylline, may play a significant role.
234669	CID	aminophylline	ventricular fibrillation

16740173|t|Case report: acute unintentional carbachol intoxication.INTRODUCTION: Intoxications with carbachol, a muscarinic cholinergic receptoragonist are rare. We report an interesting case investigating a (near) fatalpoisoning. METHODS: The son of an 84-year-old male discovered a newspaper reportstating clinical success with plant extracts in Alzheimer's disease. The modeof action was said to be comparable to that of the synthetic compound'carbamylcholin'; that is, carbachol. He bought 25 g of carbachol as puresubstance in a pharmacy, and the father was administered 400 to 500 mg. Carbacholconcentrations in serum and urine on day 1 and 2 of hospital admission were analysedby HPLC-mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Minutes after oral administration, the patientdeveloped nausea, sweating and hypotension, and finally collapsed. Bradycardia,cholinergic symptoms and asystole occurred. Initial cardiopulmonary resuscitationand immediate treatment with adrenaline (epinephrine), atropine and furosemide wassuccessful. On hospital admission, blood pressure of the intubated, bradyarrhythmicpatient was 100/65 mmHg. Further signs were hyperhidrosis, hypersalivation,bronchorrhoea, and severe miosis; the electrocardiographic finding wasatrio-ventricular dissociation. High doses of atropine (up to 50 mg per 24 hours),adrenaline and dopamine were necessary. The patient was extubated 1 week later.However, increased dyspnoea and bronchospasm necessitated reintubation. Respiratoryinsufficiency was further worsened by Proteus mirabilis infection and severebronchoconstriction. One week later, the patient was again extubated and 3 dayslater was transferred to a peripheral ward. On the next day he died, probably as aresult of heart failure. Serum samples from the first and second days contained 3.6and 1.9 mg/l carbachol, respectively. The corresponding urine concentrationsamounted to 374 and 554 mg/l. CONCLUSION: This case started with a media report in apopular newspaper, initiated by published, peer-reviewed research on herbals, andinvolved human failure in a case history, medical examination and clinicaltreatment. For the first time, an analytical method for the determination ofcarbachol in plasma and urine has been developed. The analysed carbacholconcentration exceeded the supposed serum level resulting from a therapeutic dose bya factor of 130 to 260. Especially in old patients, intensivists should considerintoxications (with cholinergics) as a cause of acute cardiovascular failure.
16740173	CID	carbachol	nausea
16740173	CID	carbachol	Bradycardia
16740173	CID	carbachol	asystole
16740173	CID	carbachol	heart failure
16740173	CID	carbachol	hypotension
16740173	CID	carbachol	miosis
16740173	CID	carbachol	hyperhidrosis
16740173	CID	carbachol	hypersalivation

12464714|t|Crossover comparison of efficacy and preference for rizatriptan 10 mg versusergotamine/caffeine in migraine.Rizatriptan is a selective 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist with rapid oral absorptionand early onset of action in the acute treatment of migraine. This randomizeddouble- blind crossover outpatient study assessed the preference for 1 rizatriptan10 mg tablet to 2 ergotamine 1 mg/caffeine 100 mg tablets in 439 patients treating asingle migraine attack with each therapy. Of patients expressing a preference(89.1%), more than twice as many preferred rizatriptan to ergotamine/caffeine (69.9vs. 30.1%, p < or = 0.001). Faster relief of headache was the most importantreason for preference, cited by 67.3% of patients preferring rizatriptan and 54.2%of patients who preferred ergotamine/caffeine. The co-primary endpoint of being painfree at 2 h was also in favor of rizatriptan. Forty-nine percent of patients werepain free 2 h after rizatriptan, compared with 24.3% treated withergotamine/caffeine (p < or = 0.001), rizatriptan being superior within 1 h oftreatment. Headache relief at 2 h was 75.9% for rizatriptan and 47.3% forergotamine/caffeine (p < or = 0.001), with rizatriptan being superior toergotamine/caffeine within 30 min of dosing. Almost 36% of patients takingrizatriptan were pain free at 2 h and had no recurrence or need for additionalmedication within 24 h, compared to 20% of patients on ergotamine/caffeine (p <or = 0.001). Rizatriptan was also superior to ergotamine/caffeine in the proportionsof patients with no nausea, vomiting, phonophobia or photophobia and for patientswith normal function 2 h after drug intake (p < or = 0.001). More patients were(completely, very or somewhat) satisfied 2 h after treatment with rizatriptan(69.8%) than at 2 h after treatment with ergotamine/caffeine (38.6%, p < or =0.001). Recurrence rates were 31.4% with rizatriptan and 15.3% withergotamine/caffeine. Both active treatments were well tolerated. The most commonadverse events (incidence > or = 5% in one group) after rizatriptan andergotamine/caffeine, respectively, were dizziness (6.7 and 5.3%), nausea (4.2 and8.5%) and somnolence (5.5 and 2.3%).
12464714	CID	rizatriptan	nausea
12464714	CID	rizatriptan	dizziness

6203452|t|Thrombotic microangiopathy and renal failure associated with antineoplasticchemotherapy.Five patients with carcinoma developed thrombotic microangiopathy (characterizedby renal insufficiency, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and usuallythrombocytopenia) after treatment with cisplatin, bleomycin, and a vinca alkaloid.One patient had thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, three the hemolytic-uremicsyndrome, and one an apparent forme fruste of one of these disorders. Histologicexamination of the renal tissue showed evidence of intravascular coagulation,primarily affecting the small arteries, arterioles, and glomeruli. Because eachpatient was tumor-free or had only a small tumor at the onset of this syndrome, thethrombotic microangiopathy may have been induced by chemotherapy. Diagnosis of thispotentially fatal complication may be delayed or missed if renal tissue or theperipheral blood smear is not examined, because renal failure may be ascribed tocisplatin nephrotoxicity and the anemia and thrombocytopenia to drug-induced bonemarrow suppression.
6203452	CID	bleomycin	thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
6203452	CID	vinca alkaloid	hemolytic-uremic syndrome
6203452	CID	cisplatin	nephrotoxicity
6203452	CID	vinca alkaloid	nephrotoxicity
6203452	CID	cisplatin	thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
6203452	CID	bleomycin	hemolytic-uremic syndrome
6203452	CID	vinca alkaloid	thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
6203452	CID	cisplatin	hemolytic-uremic syndrome
6203452	CID	bleomycin	nephrotoxicity

20528871|t|Salvage therapy with nelarabine, etoposide, and cyclophosphamide inrelapsed/refractory paediatric T-cell lymphoblastic leukaemia and lymphoma.A combination of 5 d of nelarabine (AraG) with 5 d of etoposide (VP) andcyclophosphamide (CPM) and prophylactic intrathecal chemotherapy was used as salvagetherapy in seven children with refractory or relapsed T-cell leukaemia or lymphoma.The most common side effects attributable to the AraG included Grade 2 and 3 sensoryand motor neuropathy and musculoskeletal pain. Haematological toxicity was greaterfor the combination than AraG alone, although median time to neutrophil and plateletrecovery was consistent with other salvage therapies. All patients had some responseto the combined therapy and five of the seven went into complete remission after oneor two courses of AraG/VP/CPM. Our experience supports the safety of giving AraG assalvage therapy in synchrony with etoposide and cyclophosphamide, althoughneurological toxicity must be closely monitored.
20528871	CID	nelarabine	neuropathy
20528871	CID	nelarabine	Haematological toxicity
20528871	CID	nelarabine	musculoskeletal pain

11672959|t|The 3-week sulphasalazine syndrome strikes again.A 34-year-old lady developed a constellation of dermatitis, fever, lymphadenopathyand hepatitis, beginning on the 17th day of a course of oral sulphasalazine forsero-negative rheumatoid arthritis. Cervical and inguinal lymph node biopsies showedthe features of severe necrotising lymphadenitis, associated witherythrophagocytosis and prominent eosinophilic infiltrates, without viral inclusionbodies, suggestive of an adverse drug reaction.A week later, fulminant drug-inducedhepatitis, associated with the presence of anti-nuclear autoantibodies (but not withother markers of autoimmunity), and accompanied by multi-organ failure and sepsis,supervened. She subsequently died some 5 weeks after the commencement of her drugtherapy.Post-mortem examination showed evidence of massive hepatocellular necrosis,acute hypersensitivity myocarditis, focal acute tubulo-interstitial nephritis andextensive bone marrow necrosis, with no evidence of malignancy. It is thought thatthe clinico-pathological features and chronology of this case bore the hallmarks ofthe so-called "3-week sulphasalazine syndrome", a rare, but often fatal,immunoallergic reaction to sulphasalazine.
11672959	CID	sulphasalazine	fever
11672959	CID	sulphasalazine	myocarditis
11672959	CID	sulphasalazine	lymphadenopathy
11672959	CID	sulphasalazine	sepsis
11672959	CID	sulphasalazine	nephritis
11672959	CID	sulphasalazine	dermatitis
11672959	CID	sulphasalazine	hepatitis

11928786|t|Bupropion (Zyban) toxicity.Bupropion is a monocyclic antidepressant structurally related to amphetamine.Zyban, a sustained-release formulation of bupropion hydrochloride, was recentlyreleased in Ireland, as a smoking cessation aid. In the initial 6 months sinceit's introduction, 12 overdose cases have been reported to The National PoisonsInformation Centre. 8 patients developed symptoms of toxicity. Common featuresincluded tachycardia, drowsiness, hallucinations and convulsions. Two patientsdeveloped severe cardiac arrhythmias, including one patient who was resuscitatedfollowing a cardiac arrest. All patients recovered without sequelae. We report acase of a 31 year old female who required admission to the Intensive Care Unit forventilation and full supportive therapy, following ingestion of 13.5g bupropion.Recurrent seizures were treated with diazepam and broad complex tachycardia wassuccessfully treated with adenosine. Zyban caused significant neurological andcardiovascular toxicity in overdose. The potential toxic effects should beconsidered when prescribing it as a smoking cessation aid.
11928786	CID	Bupropion	tachycardia
11928786	CID	Bupropion	convulsions
11928786	CID	Bupropion	hallucinations
11928786	CID	Bupropion	cardiac arrhythmias
11928786	CID	Bupropion	cardiac arrest

7977601|t|Survey of complications of indocyanine green angiography in Japan.PURPOSE: We evaluated the safety of indocyanine green for use in fundusangiography. METHODS: We sent a questionnaire concerning complications ofindocyanine green to 32 institutions in Japan, which were selected on the basis ofthe client list from the Topcon Company, which manufactures the indocyanine greenfundus camera. RESULTS: Ophthalmologists at 15 institutions responded, reporting atotal of 3,774 indocyanine green angiograms performed on 2,820 patients between June1984 and September 1992. Before angiography, intradermal or intravenous indocyaninegreen testing, or both was performed at 13 of 15 institutions. For three patients,the decision was made not to proceed with angiography after positive preangiographictesting. The dosage of indocyanine green used for angiography varied from 25 to 75mg, depending upon the institution. There were 13 cases of adverse reactions(0.34%), ten of which were mild reactions such as nausea, exanthema, urtication,itchiness, and urgency to defecate, and did not require treatment. Also recordedwere one case of pain of the vein, which required treatment, and two cases ofhypotension. The two hypotensive patients required treatment for shock. CONCLUSIONS:A comparison of frequency of adverse reactions to indocyanine green with thepreviously reported frequency of such reactions to fluorescein sodium indicated thatindocyanine green is a safe as fluorescein for use in angiography.
7977601	CID	indocyanine green	shock
7977601	CID	indocyanine green	pain
7977601	CID	indocyanine green	hypotension
7977601	CID	indocyanine green	itchiness
7977601	CID	indocyanine green	nausea
7977601	CID	indocyanine green	exanthema
7977601	CID	indocyanine green	urtication

19300402|t|Bradykinin receptors antagonists and nitric oxide synthase inhibitors invincristine and streptozotocin induced hyperalgesia in chemotherapy and diabeticneuropathy rat model.PURPOSE: The influence of an irreversible inhibitor of constitutive NO synthase(L-NOArg; 1.0 mg/kg ip), a relatively selective inhibitor of inducible NO synthase(L-NIL; 1.0 mg/kg ip) and a relatively specific inhibitor of neuronal NO synthase(7-NI; 0.1 mg/kg ip), on antihyperalgesic action of selective antagonists of B2 andB1 receptors: D-Arg-[Hyp3,Thi5,D-Tic7,Oic8] bradykinin (HOE 140; 70 nmol/kg ip) ordes Arg10 HOE 140 (70 nmol/kg ip) respectively, in model of diabetic(streptozotocin-induced) and toxic (vincristine-induced) neuropathy wasinvestigated. METHODS: The changes in pain thresholds were determined usingmechanical stimuli--the modification of the classic paw withdrawal test described byRandall-Selitto. RESULTS: The results of this paper confirm that inhibition ofbradykinin receptors and inducible NO synthase but not neuronal NO synthase activityreduces diabetic hyperalgesia. Pretreatment with L-NOArg and L-NIL but not 7-NI,significantly increases antihyperalgesic activity both HOE 140 and des Arg10 HOE140. It was also shown that both products of inducible NO synthase and neuronal NOsynthase activation as well as bradykinin are involved in hyperalgesia produced byvincristine. Moreover, L-NOArg and 7-NI but not L-NIL intensify antihyperalgesicactivity of HOE 140 or des-Arg10HOE 140 in toxic neuropathy. CONCLUSIONS: Results ofthese studies suggest that B1 and B2 receptors are engaged in transmission ofnociceptive stimuli in both diabetic and toxic neuropathy. In streptozotocin-inducedhyperalgesia, inducible NO synthase participates in pronociceptive activity ofbradykinin, whereas in vincristine-induced hyperalgesia bradykinin seemed toactivate neuronal NO synthase pathway. Therefore, concomitant administration ofsmall doses of bradykinin receptor antagonists and NO synthase inhibitors can beeffective in alleviation of neuropathic pain, even in hospital care.
19300402	CID	streptozotocin	diabetic neuropathy
19300402	CID	streptozotocin	hyperalgesia
19300402	CID	vincristine	toxic (vincristine-induced) neuropathy
19300402	CID	vincristine	hyperalgesia

15325671|t|Cardiac toxicity observed in association with high-dose cyclophosphamide-basedchemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer.INTRODUCTION: Cyclophosphamide is an alkylating agent given frequently as acomponent of many conditioning regimens. In high doses, its nonhematologicaldose-limiting toxicity is cardiomyopathy. STUDY DESIGN: We combined paclitaxel,melphalan and high-dose cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, and carboplatin in a triplesequential high-dose regimen for patients with metastatic breast cancer. Analysiswas performed on 61 women with chemotherapy-responsive metastatic breast cancerreceiving 96-h infusional cyclophosphamide as part of a triple sequential high-doseregimen to assess association between presence of peritransplant congestive heartfailure (CHF) and the following pretreatment characteristics: presence ofelectrocardiogram (EKG) abnormalities, age, hypertension, prior cardiac history,smoking, diabetes mellitus, prior use of anthracyclines, and left-sided chestirradiation. RESULTS: Six of 61 women (10%) developed clinically reversible grade 3CHF following infusional cyclophosphamide with a median percent decline in ejectionfraction of 31%. Incidence of transient cyclophosphamide-related cardiac toxicity(10%) is comparable to previous recorded literature. Older age was significantlycorrelated with the CHF development; with median ages for the entire group and forpatients developing CHF of 45 and 59, respectively. No association was found withother pretreatment characteristics. CONCLUSIONS: As a result of these findings,oncologists should carefully monitor fluid balance in older patients. Routine EKGmonitoring during infusional cyclophosphamide did not predict CHF development.
15325671	CID	cyclophosphamide	congestive heart failure

9746003|t|Inappropriate use of carbamazepine and vigabatrin in typical absence seizures.Carbamazepine and vigabatrin are contraindicated in typical absence seizures. Of18 consecutive referrals of children with resistant typical absences only, eightwere erroneously treated with carbamazepine either as monotherapy or as an add-on.Vigabatrin was also used in the treatment of two children. Frequency of absencesincreased in four children treated with carbamazepine and two of these developedmyoclonic jerks, which resolved on withdrawal of carbamazepine. Absences wereaggravated in both cases where vigabatrin was added on to concurrent treatment.Optimal control of the absences was achieved with sodium valproate, lamotrigine, orethosuximide alone or in combination.
9746003	CID	carbamazepine	absence seizures
9746003	CID	carbamazepine	myoclonic jerks
9746003	CID	vigabatrin	absence seizures

1992636|t|Hemolytic anemia associated with the use of omeprazole.Omeprazole is the first drug designed to block the final step in the acidsecretory process within the parietal cell. It has been shown to be extremelyeffective in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease, reflux esophagitis, and theZollinger-Ellison syndrome. Although clinical experience with omeprazole is stilllimited, many controlled studies have established the short-term safety of thisdrug. We report the first case of a serious short-term adverse reaction with the useof omeprazole: hemolytic anemia. The patient developed weakness, lethargy, andshortness of breath 2 days after starting therapy with omeprazole. Two weeks afterthe initiation of therapy, her hematocrit had decreased from 44.1% to 20.4%, and shehad a positive direct Coombs antiglobulin test and an elevated indirect bilirubin.After she discontinued the omeprazole, her hemoglobin and hematocrit graduallyreturned to normal. The mechanism by which omeprazole caused the patient'shemolytic anemia is uncertain, but physicians should be alerted to this possibleadverse effect.
1992636	CID	omeprazole	shortness of breath
1992636	CID	omeprazole	Hemolytic anemia
1992636	CID	omeprazole	lethargy

8387218|t|The use and toxicity of didanosine (ddI) in HIV antibody-positive individualsintolerant to zidovudine (AZT)One hundred and fifty-one patients intolerant to zidovudine (AZT) receiveddidanosine (ddI) to a maximum dose of 12.5 mg/kg/day. Patient response was assessedusing changes in CD4+ lymphocyte subset count, HIV p24 antigen, weight, and qualityof life. Seventy patients developed major opportunistic infections whilst ontherapy; this was the first AIDS diagnosis in 17. Only minor changes in CD4+lymphocyte subset count were observed in AIDS patients, although a more significantrise occurred in those with earlier stages of disease. Of those positive for p24antigen at the commencement of the study 67% showed a positive response, and thiswas most likely in those with CD4+ lymphocyte subset counts above 100 mm3. Apositive weight response was seen in 16% of patients. Most patients showedimprovement in individual parameters and global score of quality of life. Adversereactions possibly attributable to didanosine were common. The most commonside-effect was diarrhoea, which resulted in cessation of therapy in 19 individuals.Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 12 patients and pancreatitis in six. Thirteenpatients developed a raised serum amylase without abdominal pain. Seven patientsdeveloped glucose tolerance curves characteristic of diabetes but these were mild,did not require treatment and returned to normal on ceasing didanosine.
8387218	CID	didanosine	glucose tolerance curves
8387218	CID	didanosine	Peripheral neuropathy
8387218	CID	didanosine	diarrhoea
8387218	CID	didanosine	pancreatitis

20698227|t|Can angiogenesis be a target of treatment for ribavirin associated hemolyticanemia?BACKGROUND/AIMS: Recently ribavirin has been found to inhibit angiogenesis and anumber of angiogenesis inhibitors such as sunitinib and sorafenib have been found tocause acute hemolysis. We aimed to investigate whether there is a relation betweenhemoglobin, haptoglobin and angiogenesis soluble markers which are modifiable andcan help in developing strategies against anemia. METHODS: Fourteen patientschronically infected with hepatitis C virus were treated by pegylated interferonalpha 2a and ribavirin. Serum hemoglobin, haptoglobin and angiogenesis markers ofvascular endothelial growth factor and angiopoetin-2 were investigated before andafter therapy. RESULTS: We observed a significant decrease in haptoglobin levels atthe end of the treatment period. Hemoglobin levels also decreased butinsignificantly by treatment. In contrast with the literature, serum levels ofangiogenesis factors did not change significantly by pegylated interferon andribavirin therapy. We found no correlation of angiogenesis soluble markers witheither hemoglobin or haptoglobin. CONCLUSION: This is the first study in theliterature investigating a link between angiogenesis soluble markers and ribavirininduced anemia in patients with hepatitis C and we could not find any relation.Future research with larger number of patients is needed to find out modifiablefactors that will improve the safety of ribavirin therapy.
20698227	CID	sorafenib	hemolysis
20698227	CID	sunitinib	hemolysis

20477932|t|Cocaine causes memory and learning impairments in rats: involvement of nuclearfactor kappa B and oxidative stress, and prevention by topiramate.Different mechanisms have been suggested for cocaine toxicity including anincrease in oxidative stress but the association between oxidative status in thebrain and cocaine induced-behaviour is poorly understood. Nuclear factor kappa B(NFkappaB) is a sensor of oxidative stress and participates in memory formation thatcould be involved in drug toxicity and addiction mechanisms. Therefore NFkappaBactivity, oxidative stress, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) activity, spatiallearning and memory as well as the effect of topiramate, a previously proposedtherapy for cocaine addiction, were evaluated in an experimental model of cocaineadministration in rats. NFkappaB activity was decreased in the frontal cortex ofcocaine treated rats, as well as GSH concentration and glutathione peroxidaseactivity in the hippocampus, whereas nNOS activity in the hippocampus was increased.Memory retrieval of experiences acquired prior to cocaine administration wasimpaired and negatively correlated with NFkappaB activity in the frontal cortex. Incontrast, learning of new tasks was enhanced and correlated with the increase ofnNOS activity and the decrease of glutathione peroxidase. These results provideevidence for a possible mechanistic role of oxidative and nitrosative stress andNFkappaB in the alterations induced by cocaine. Topiramate prevented all thealterations observed, showing novel neuroprotective properties.
20477932	CID	Cocaine	learning impairments
20477932	CID	Cocaine	memory impairments

9495837|t|Antinociceptive and antiamnesic properties of the presynaptic cholinergicamplifier PG-9.The antinociceptive effect of 3 alpha-tropyl 2-(p-bromophenyl)propionate[(+/-)-PG-9] (10-40 mg kg-1 s.c.; 30-60 mg kg-1 p.o.; 10-30 mg kg-1 i.v.; 10-30micrograms/mouse i.c.v.) was examined in mice, rats and guinea pigs by use of thehot-plate, abdominal-constriction, tail-flick and paw-pressure tests. (+/-)-PG-9antinociception peaked 15 min after injection and then slowly diminished. Theantinociception produced by (+/-)-PG-9 was prevented by the unselective muscarinicantagonist atropine, the M1-selective antagonists pirenzepine and dicyclomine andthe acetylcholine depletor hemicholinium-3, but not by the opioid antagonistnaloxone, the gamma-aminobutyric acidB antagonist3-aminopropyl-diethoxy-methyl-phosphinic acid, the H3 agonistR-(alpha)-methylhistamine, the D2 antagonist quinpirole, the 5-hydroxytryptamine4antagonist 2-methoxy-4-amino-5-chlorobenzoic acid 2-(diethylamino)ethyl esterhydrochloride, the 5-hydroxytryptamin1A antagonist1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4-[4-(2-phthalimido)butyl]piperazine hydrobromide and thepolyamines depletor reserpine. Based on these data, it can be postulated that(+/-)-PG-9 exerted an antinociceptive effect mediated by a central potentiation ofcholinergic transmission. (+/-)-PG-9 (10-40 mg kg-1 i.p.) was able to preventamnesia induced by scopolamine (1 mg kg-1 i.p.) and dicyclomine (2 mg kg-1 i.p.) inthe mouse passive-avoidance test. Affinity profiles of (+/-)-PG-9 for muscarinicreceptor subtypes, determined by functional studies (rabbit vas deferens for M1,guinea pig atrium for M2, guinea pig ileum for M3 and immature guinea pig uterus forputative M4), have shown an M4/M1 selectivity ratio of 10.2 that might beresponsible for the antinociception and the anti-amnesic effect induced by(+/-)-PG-9 through an increase in acetylcholine extracellular levels. In theantinociceptive and antiamnesic dose range, (+/-)-PG-9 did not impair mouseperformance evaluated by the rota-rod test and Animex apparatus.
9495837	CID	scopolamine	amnesia
9495837	CID	dicyclomine	amnesia

1468485|t|Hyperbaric oxygen therapy for control of intractable cyclophosphamide-inducedhemorrhagic cystitis.We report a case of intractable hemorrhagic cystitis due to cyclophosphamidetherapy for Wegener's granulomatosis. Conservative treatment, including bladderirrigation with physiological saline and instillation of prostaglandin F2 alpha,failed to totally control hemorrhage. We then used hyperbaric oxygen at an absolutepressure of 2 atm, 5 days a week for 8 consecutive weeks. The bleeding ceasedcompletely by the end of treatment and the patient remained free of hematuriathereafter. No side effect was noted during the course of therapy. In future, thisform of therapy can offer a safe alternative in the treatment ofcyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.
1468485	CID	cyclophosphamide	hematuria
1468485	CID	cyclophosphamide	cystitis
1468485	CID	cyclophosphamide	hemorrhagic

1009330|t|Further studies on effects of irrigation solutions on rat bladders.Further studies on the effects of certain irrigating fluids on the rat bladder for18 hours are reported. The results have shown that the degradation productp-choloroaniline is not a significant factor in chlorhexidine-digluconate associatederosive cystitis. A high percentage of kanamycin-colistin and povidone-iodineirrigations were associated with erosive cystitis and suggested a possiblecomplication with human usage. Picloxydine irrigations appeared to have a lowerincidence of erosive cystitis but further studies would have to be performed beforeit could be recommended for use in urological procedures.
1009330	CID	chlorhexidine-digluconate	cystitis
1009330	CID	colistin	cystitis
1009330	CID	kanamycin	cystitis
1009330	CID	povidone-iodine	cystitis

347884|t|Clinical experiences in an open and a double-blind trial.A total of sixty patients were trated with bromperidol first in open conditions(20 patients), then on a double blind basis (40 patients) with haloperidol as thereference substance. The open study lasted for four weeks; the drug wasadministrated in the form of 1 mg tablets. The daily dose (initial dose: 1 mg; meandose at the end of the trial: 4.47 mg) was always administered in one single dose.Nineteen patients finished the trial, and in 18 cases the therapeutic result wasconsidered very good to good. These results were confirmed by statistical analysis.Nine patients exhibited mild to moderate extrapyramidal concomitant symptoms; noother side effects were observed. The results of detailed laboratory tests andevaluations of various quantitative and qualitative tolerability parameters were notindicative of toxic effects. In the double blind study with haloperidol, bothsubstances were found to be highly effective in the treatment of psychotic syndromesbelonging predominantly to the schizophrenia group. Certain clues, including theonset of action, seem to be indicative of the superiority of bromperidol. Nodifferences were observed with respect to side effects and general tolerability.
347884	CID	haloperidol	extrapyramidal concomitant symptoms
347884	CID	bromperidol	extrapyramidal concomitant symptoms

20667451|t|Curcumin ameliorates cognitive dysfunction and oxidative damage in phenobarbitoneand carbamazepine administered rats.The antiepileptic drugs, phenobarbitone and carbamazepine are well known to causecognitive impairment on chronic use. The increase in free radical generation hasbeen implicated as one of the important mechanisms of cognitive impairment byantiepileptic drugs. Curcumin has shown antioxidant, anti-inflammatory andneuro-protective properties. Therefore, the present study was carried out toinvestigate the effect of chronic curcumin administration on phenobarbitone- andcarbamazepine-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative stress in rats.Pharmacokinetic interactions of curcumin with phenobarbitone and carbamazepine werealso studied. Vehicle/drugs were administered daily for 21days to male Wistar rats.Passive avoidance paradigm and elevated plus maze test were used to assess cognitivefunction. At the end of study period, serum phenobarbitone and carbamazepine, wholebrain malondialdehyde and reduced glutathione levels were estimated. Theadministration of phenobarbitone and carbamazepine for 21days caused a significantimpairment of learning and memory as well as an increased oxidative stress.Concomitant curcumin administration prevented the cognitive impairment and decreasedthe increased oxidative stress induced by these antiepileptic drugs. Curcuminco-administration did not cause any significant alteration in the serumconcentrations of both phenobarbitone as well as carbamazepine. These results showthat curcumin has beneficial effect in mitigating the deterioration of cognitivefunctions and oxidative damage in rats treated with phenobarbitone and carbamazepinewithout significantly altering their serum concentrations. The findings suggest thatcurcumin can be considered as a potential safe and effective adjuvant tophenobarbitone and carbamazepine therapy in preventing cognitive impairmentassociated with these drugs.
20667451	CID	phenobarbitone	cognitive dysfunction
20667451	CID	carbamazepine	cognitive dysfunction

19767176|t|Pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate protects the piriform cortex in the pilocarpine statusepilepticus model.Pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) has a dual mechanism of action as anantioxidant and an inhibitor of the transcription factor kappa-beta. Both,production of reactive oxygen species as well as activation of NF-kappaB have beenimplicated in severe neuronal damage in different sub-regions of the hippocampus aswell as in the surrounding cortices. The effect of PDTC on statusepilepticus-associated cell loss in the hippocampus and piriform cortex wasevaluated in the rat fractionated pilocarpine model. Treatment with 150 mg/kg PDTCbefore and following status epilepticus significantly increased the mortality rateto 100%. Administration of 50 mg/kg PDTC (low-dose) did not exert major effects onthe development of a status epilepticus or the mortality rate. In vehicle-treatedrats, status epilepticus caused pronounced neuronal damage in the piriform cortexcomprising both pyramidal cells and interneurons. Low-dose PDTC treatment almostcompletely protected from lesions in the piriform cortex. A significant decrease inneuronal density of the hippocampal hilar formation was identified in vehicle- andPDTC-treated rats following status epilepticus. In conclusion, the NF-kappaBinhibitor and antioxidant PDTC protected the piriform cortex, whereas it did notaffect hilar neuronal loss. These data might indicate that the generation ofreactive oxygen species and activation of NF-kappaB plays a more central role inseizure-associated neuronal damage in the temporal cortex as compared to thehippocampal hilus. However, future investigations are necessary to exactly analyzethe biochemical mechanisms by which PDTC exerted its beneficial effects in thepiriform cortex.
19767176	CID	pilocarpine	status epilepticus
19767176	CID	pilocarpine	neuronal damage

16330293|t|Safety profile of a nicotine lozenge compared with that of nicotine gum in adultsmokers with underlying medical conditions: a 12-week, randomized, open-label study.BACKGROUND: Nicotine polacrilex lozenges deliver 25% to 27% more nicotine comparedwith equivalent doses of nicotine polacrilex gum. The increased nicotine exposurefrom the lozenge has raised questions about the relative safety of the lozenge andgum. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to compare the safety profiles ofthe 4-mg nicotine lozenge and 4-mg nicotine gum in smokers with selectedlabel-restricted diseases. METHODS: This was a multicenter, randomized, open-labelstudy in adult smokers with heart disease, hypertension not controlled bymedication, and/or diabetes mellitus. Patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio toreceive the 4-mg nicotine lozenge or 4-mg nicotine gum. Safety assessments were madeat baseline and at 2, 4, 6, and 12 weeks after the start of product use. RESULTS:Nine hundred one patients were randomized to treatment, 447 who received the lozengeand 454 who received the gum (safety population). The majority were women (52.7%).Patients' mean age was 53.9 years, their mean weight was 193.9 pounds, and theysmoked a mean of 25.2 cigarettes per day at baseline. Five hundred fifty-threepatients, 264 taking the lozenge and 289 taking the gum, used the study product for> or =4 days per week during the first 2 weeks (evaluable population). Thenicotine lozenge and nicotine gum were equally well tolerated, despite increasednicotine exposure from the lozenge. The incidence of adverse events in the 2 groupswas similar during the first 2 weeks of product use (evaluation population: 55.3%lozenge, 54.7% gum), as well as during the entire study (safety population: 63.8%and 58.6%, respectively). Stratification of patients by sex, age, extent ofconcurrent smoking, extent of product use, and severity of adverse events revealedno clinically significant differences between the lozenge and gum. The most commonadverse events were nausea (17.2% and 16.1%; 95% CI, -3.7 to 6.0), hiccups (10.7%and 6.6%; 95% CI, 0.5 to 7.8), and headache (8.7% and 9.9%; 95% Cl, -5.0 to 2.6).Serious adverse events were reported in 11 and 13 patients in the respective groups.Fewer than 6% of patients in either group were considered by the investigator tohave a worsening of their overall disease condition during the study. The majorityof patients (>60%) experienced no change in their disease status from baseline.CONCLUSION: The 4-mg nicotine lozenge and 4-mg nicotine gum had comparable safetyprofiles in these patients with label-restricted medical conditions.
16330293	CID	nicotine	nausea
16330293	CID	nicotine	headache
16330293	CID	nicotine	hiccups

14568327|t|Development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in parkinsonian monkeys may dependupon rate of symptom onset and/or duration of symptoms.Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) present a major problem for the long-termmanagement of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Due to the interdependence ofrisk factors in clinical populations, it is difficult to independently examinefactors that may influence the development of LIDs. Using macaque monkeys withdifferent types of MPTP-induced parkinsonism, the current study evaluated the degreeto which rate of symptom progression, symptom severity, and response to and durationof levodopa therapy may be involved in the development of LIDs. Monkeys with acute(short-term) MPTP exposure, rapid symptom onset and short symptom duration prior toinitiation of levodopa therapy developed dyskinesia between 11 and 24 days of dailylevodopa administration. In contrast, monkeys with long-term MPTP exposure, slowsymptom progression and/or long symptom duration prior to initiation of levodopatherapy were more resistant to developing LIDs (e.g., dyskinesia developed no soonerthan 146 days of chronic levodopa administration). All animals were similarlysymptomatic at the start of levodopa treatment and had similar therapeutic responsesto the drug. These data suggest distinct differences in the propensity to developLIDs in monkeys with different rates of symptom progression or symptom durationsprior to levodopa and demonstrate the value of these models for further studying thepathophysiology of LIDs.
14568327	CID	levodopa	dyskinesias
14568327	CID	MPTP	parkinsonism

11250767|t|Propylthiouracil-induced perinuclear-staining antineutrophil cytoplasmicautoantibody-positive vasculitis in conjunction with pericarditis.OBJECTIVE: To describe a case of propylthiouracil-induced vasculitis manifestingwith pericarditis. METHODS: We present the first case report of a woman withhyperthyroidism treated with propylthiouracil in whom a syndrome of pericarditis,fever, and glomerulonephritis developed. Serologic testing and immunologic studieswere done, and a pericardial biopsy was performed. RESULTS: A 25-year-old woman withGraves' disease had a febrile illness and evidence of pericarditis, which wasconfirmed by biopsy. Serologic evaluation revealed the presence ofperinuclear-staining antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (pANCA) againstmyeloperoxidase (MPO). Propylthiouracil therapy was withdrawn, and she was treatedwith a 1-month course of prednisone, which alleviated her symptoms. A literaturereview revealed no prior reports of pericarditis in anti-MPO pANCA-positivevasculitis associated with propylthio- uracil therapy. CONCLUSION: Pericarditis maybe the initial manifestation of drug-induced vasculitis attributable to propylthio-uracil therapy.
11250767	CID	Propylthiouracil	fever
11250767	CID	Propylthiouracil	pericarditis
11250767	CID	Propylthiouracil	glomerulonephritis

11206082|t|Two mouse lines selected for differential sensitivities to beta-carboline-inducedseizures are also differentially sensitive to various pharmacological effects ofother GABA(A) receptor ligands.Two mouse lines were selectively bred according to their sensitivity (BS line) orresistance (BR line) to seizures induced by a single i.p. injection of methylbeta-carboline-3-carboxylate (beta-CCM), an inverse agonist of the GABA(A) receptorbenzodiazepine site. Our aim was to characterize both lines' sensitivities tovarious physiological effects of other ligands of the GABA(A) receptor. We measureddiazepam-induced anxiolysis with the elevated plus-maze test, diazepam-inducedsedation by recording the vigilance states, and picrotoxin- andpentylenetetrazol-induced seizures after i.p. injections. Results presented hereshow that the differential sensitivities of BS and BR lines to beta-CCM can beextended to diazepam, picrotoxin, and pentylenetetrazol, suggesting a geneticselection of a general sensitivity and resistance to several ligands of the GABA(A)receptor.
11206082	CID	picrotoxin	seizures
11206082	CID	pentylenetetrazol	seizures
11206082	CID	beta-carboline	seizures

11027905|t|Analgesic effect of intravenous ketamine in cancer patients on morphine therapy: arandomized, controlled, double-blind, crossover, double-dose study.Pain not responsive to morphine is often problematic. Animal and clinical studieshave suggested that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists, such as ketamine, maybe effective in improving opioid analgesia in difficult pain syndromes, such asneuropathic pain. A slow bolus of subhypnotic doses of ketamine (0.25 mg/kg or 0.50mg/kg) was given to 10 cancer patients whose pain was unrelieved by morphine in arandomized, double-blind, crossover, double-dose study. Pain intensity on a 0 to 10numerical scale; nausea and vomiting, drowsiness, confusion, and dry mouth, using ascale from 0 to 3 (not at all, slight, a lot, awful); Mini-Mental State Examination(MMSE) (0-30); and arterial pressure were recorded before administration of drugs(T0) and after 30 minutes (T30), 60 minutes (T60), 120 minutes (T120), and 180minutes (T180). Ketamine, but not saline solution, significantly reduced the painintensity in almost all the patients at both doses. This effect was more relevant inpatients treated with higher doses. Hallucinations occurred in 4 patients, and anunpleasant sensation ("empty head") was also reported by 2 patients. Theseepisodes reversed after the administration of diazepam 1 mg intravenously.Significant increases in drowsiness were reported in patients treated with ketaminein both groups and were more marked with ketamine 0.50 mg/kg. A significantdifference in MMSE was observed at T30 in patients who received 0.50 mg/kg ofketamine. Ketamine can improve morphine analgesia in difficult pain syndromes, suchas neuropathic pain. However, the occurrence of central adverse effects should betaken into account, especially when using higher doses. This observation should betested in studies of prolonged ketamine administration.
11027905	CID	ketamine	Hallucinations

9334596|t|Endocrine screening in 1,022 men with erectile dysfunction: clinical significanceand cost-effective strategy.PURPOSE: We reviewed the results of serum testosterone and prolactin determinationin 1,022 patients referred because of erectile dysfunction and compared the datawith history, results of physical examination, other etiological investigations andeffects of endocrine therapy to refine the rules of cost-effective endocrinescreening and to pinpoint actual responsibility for hormonal abnormalities.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Testosterone and prolactin were determined byradioimmunoassay. Every patient was screened for testosterone and 451 were screenedfor prolactin on the basis of low sexual desire, gynecomastia or testosterone lessthan 4 ng./ml. Determination was repeated in case of abnormal first results.Prolactin results were compared with those of a previous personal cohort of 1,340patients with erectile dysfunction and systematic prolactin determination. Mainclinical criteria tested regarding efficiency in hormone determination were lowsexual desire, small testes and gynecomastia. Endocrine therapy consisted oftestosterone heptylate or human chorionic gonadotropin for hypogonadism andbromocriptine for hyperprolactinemia. RESULTS: Testosterone was less than 3 ng./ml.in 107 patients but normal in 40% at repeat determination. The prevalence ofrepeatedly low testosterone increased with age (4% before age 50 years and 9% 50years or older). Two pituitary tumors were discovered after testosteronedetermination. Most of the other low testosterone levels seemed to result fromnonorganic hypothalamic dysfunction because of normal serum luteinizing hormone andprolactin and to have only a small role in erectile dysfunction (definiteimprovement in only 16 of 44 [36%] after androgen therapy, normal morning ornocturnal erections in 30% and definite vasculogenic contributions in 42%).Determining testosterone only in cases of low sexual desire or abnormal physicalexamination would have missed 40% of the cases with low testosterone, including 37%of those subsequently improved by androgen therapy. Prolactin exceeded 20 ng./ml. in5 men and was normal in 2 at repeat determination. Only 1 prolactinoma wasdiscovered. These data are lower than those we found during the last 2 decades(overall prolactin greater than 20 ng./ml. in 1.86% of 1,821 patients, prolactinomasin 7, 0.38%). Bromocriptine was definitely effective in cases with prolactin greaterthan 35 ng./ml. (8 of 12 compared to only 9 of 22 cases with prolactin between 20and 35 ng./ml.). Testosterone was low in less than 50% of cases with prolactingreater than 35 ng./ml. CONCLUSIONS: Low prevalences and effects of low testosteroneand high prolactin in erectile dysfunction cannot justify their routinedetermination. However, cost-effective screening strategies recommended so farmissed 40 to 50% of cases improved with endocrine therapy and the pituitary tumors.We now advocate that before age 50 years testosterone be determined only in cases oflow sexual desire and abnormal physical examination but that it be measured in allmen older than 50 years. Prolactin should be determined only in cases of low sexualdesire, gynecomastia and/or testosterone less than 4 ng./ml.
9334596	CID	testosterone	low sexual desire

8595686|t|Thiopentone pretreatment for propofol injection pain in ambulatory patients.This study investigated propofol injection pain in patients undergoing ambulatoryanaesthesia. In a randomized, double-blind trial, 90 women were allocated to receiveone of three treatments prior to induction of anaesthesia with propofol. Patients inGroup C received 2 ml normal saline, Group L, 2 ml, lidocaine 2% (40 mg) and GroupT, 2 ml thiopentone 2.5% (50 mg). Venous discomfort was assessed with a visualanalogue scale (VAS) 5-15 sec after commencing propofol administration using aninfusion pump (rate 1000 micrograms.kg-1.min-1). Loss of consciousness occurred in60-90 sec. Visual analogue scores (mean +/- SD) during induction were lower inGroups L (3.3 +/- 2.5) and T (4.1 +/- 2.7) than in Group C (5.6 +/- 2.3); P =0.0031. The incidence of venous discomfort was lower in Group L (76.6%; P < 0.05)than in Group C (100%) but not different from Group T (90%). The VAS scores forrecall of pain in the recovery room were correlated with the VAS scores duringinduction (r = 0.7045; P < 0.0001). Recovery room discharge times were similar: C(75.9 +/- 19.4 min); L 73.6 +/- 21.6 min); T (77.1 +/- 18.9 min). Assessing theiroverall satisfaction, 89.7% would choose propofol anaesthesia again. We concludethat lidocaine reduces the incidence and severity of propofol injection pain inambulatory patients whereas thiopentone only reduces its severity.
8595686	CID	propofol	pain

6466532|t|Comparison of i.v. glycopyrrolate and atropine in the prevention of bradycardiaand arrhythmias following repeated doses of suxamethonium in children.The effectiveness of administration of glycopyrrolate 5 and 10 micrograms kg-1 andatropine 10 and 20 micrograms kg-1 i.v. immediately before the induction ofanaesthesia, to prevent arrhythmia and bradycardia following repeated doses ofsuxamethonium in children, was studied. A control group was included for comparisonwith the lower dose range of glycopyrrolate and atropine. A frequency of bradycardiaof 50% was noted in the control group, but this was not significantly different fromthe frequency with the active drugs. Bradycardia (defined as a decrease in heartrate to less than 50 beat min-1) was prevented when the larger dose of either activedrug was used. It is recommended that either glycopyrrolate 10 micrograms kg-1 oratropine 20 micrograms kg-1 i.v. should immediately precede induction ofanaesthesia, in children, if the repeated administration of suxamethonium isanticipated.
6466532	CID	suxamethonium	bradycardia

6308277|t|Reduction in caffeine toxicity by acetaminophen.A patient who allegedly consumed 100 tablets of an over-the-counter analgesiccontaining sodium acetylsalicylate, caffeine, and acetaminophen displayed nosignificant CNS stimulation despite the presence of 175 micrograms of caffeine permL of serum. Because salicylates have been reported to augment the stimulatoryeffects of caffeine on the CNS, attention was focused on the possibility that thepresence of acetaminophen (52 micrograms/mL) reduced the CNS toxicity of caffeine.Studies in DBA/2J mice showed that: 1) pretreatment with acetaminophen (100 mg/kg)increased the interval between the administration of caffeine (300 to 450 mg/kg IP)and the onset of fatal convulsions by a factor of about two; and 2) pretreatmentwith acetaminophen (75 mg/kg) reduced the incidence of audiogenic seizures producedin the presence of caffeine (12.5 to 75 mg/kg IP). The frequency of sound-inducedseizures after 12.5 or 25 mg/kg caffeine was reduced from 50 to 5% by acetaminophen.In the absence of caffeine, acetaminophen (up to 300 mg/kg) did not modify theseizures induced by maximal electroshock and did not alter the convulsant dose ofpentylenetetrezol in mice (tests performed by the Anticonvulsant Screening Projectof NINCDS). Acetaminophen (up to 150 micrograms/mL) did not retard the incorporationof radioactive adenosine into ATP in slices of rat cerebral cortex. Thus themechanism by which acetaminophen antagonizes the actions of caffeine in the CNSremains unknown.
6308277	CID	caffeine	convulsions
6308277	CID	pentylenetetrezol	convulsions

2870085|t|Flestolol: an ultra-short-acting beta-adrenergic blocking agent.Flestolol (ACC-9089) is a nonselective, competitive, ultra-short-actingbeta-adrenergic blocking agent, without any intrinsic sympathomimetic activity.Flestolol is metabolized by plasma esterases and has an elimination half-life ofapproximately 6.5 minutes. This agent was well tolerated in healthy volunteers atdoses up to 100 micrograms/kg/min. In long-term infusion studies, flestolol was welltolerated at the effective beta-blocking dose (5 micrograms/kg/min) for up to sevendays. Flestolol blood concentrations increased linearly with increasing dose andgood correlation exists between blood concentrations of flestolol andbeta-adrenergic blockade. Flestolol produced a dose-dependent attenuation ofisoproterenol-induced tachycardia. Electrophysiologic and hemodynamic effects offlestolol are similar to those of other beta blockers. In contrast with other betablockers, flestolol-induced effects reverse rapidly (within 30 minutes) followingdiscontinuation because of its short half-life. Flestolol effectively reduced heartrate in patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmia. In patients with unstableangina, flestolol infusion was found to be safe and effective in controlling chestpain. It is concluded that flestolol is a potent, well-tolerated, ultra-short-actingbeta-adrenergic blocking agent. Use of flestolol in the critical care setting iscurrently undergoing investigation.
2870085	CID	isoproterenol	tachycardia

1639466|t|Adverse effect of the calcium channel blocker nitrendipine on nephrosclerosis inrats with renovascular hypertension.The effect of a 6-week treatment with the calcium channel blocker nitrendipine orthe angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril on blood pressure,albuminuria, renal hemodynamics, and morphology of the nonclipped kidney was studiedin rats with two-kidney, one clip renovascular hypertension. Six weeks afterclipping of one renal artery, hypertensive rats (178 +/- 4 mm Hg) were randomlyassigned to three groups: untreated hypertensive controls (n = 8), enalapril-treated(n = 8), or nitrendipine-treated (n = 10). Sham-operated rats served as normotensivecontrols (128 +/- 3 mm Hg, n = 8). After 6 weeks of treatment, renal hemodynamics(glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow) were measured in the anesthetizedrats. Renal tissue was obtained for determination of glomerular size and sclerosis.Enalapril but not nitrendipine reduced blood pressure significantly. After 6 weeksof therapy, glomerular filtration rate was not different among the studied groups.Renal plasma flow increased, but albumin excretion and glomerulosclerosis did notchange after enalapril treatment. In contrast, in the nitrendipine-treated groupalbuminuria increased from 12.8 +/- 2 progressively to 163 +/- 55 compared with 19.2+/- 9 mg/24 hr in the hypertensive controls. Furthermore, glomerulosclerosis indexwas significantly increased in the nitrendipine-treated group compared with thehypertensive controls (0.38 +/- 0.1 versus 0.13 +/- 0.04). In addition, glomerularsize was higher in the nitrendipine-treated group (14.9 +/- 0.17 10(-3) mm2) butlower in the enalapril-treated group (11.5 +/- 0.15 10(-3) mm2) compared with thehypertensive controls (12.1 +/- 0.17 10(-3) mm2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1639466	CID	nitrendipine	albuminuria
1639466	CID	nitrendipine	nephrosclerosis

1527456|t|Treatment of tinnitus by intratympanic instillation of lignocaine (lidocaine) 2per cent through ventilation tubes.Idiopathic subjective tinnitus (IST) is one of the most obscure otologicalpathologies. This paper presents the results of treating IST by intratympanicinstillation of lignocaine (lidocaine) 2 per cent through a grommet, for five weeklycourses. Fifty-two patients suffering from intractable tinnitus entered thistherapeutic trial, but only nine finished all five courses. In one patient, thetinnitus was almost completely abolished, but in all the nine patients thedecompensated tinnitus changed to a compensated one. We suggest this mode oftreatment for patients that were previously treated by drugs, acupuncture andbiofeedback, with disappointing results. Patients should be warned about the sideeffects of vertigo and vomiting, which subsides gradually with every newinstillation, and that the tinnitus may not disappear but will be alleviated,enabling them to cope more easily with the disease and lead a more normal life.
1527456	CID	lignocaine	vertigo
1527456	CID	lignocaine	vomiting

220563|t|Perhexiline maleate and peripheral neuropathy.Peripheral neuropathy has been noted as a complication of therapy with perhexilinemaleate, a drug widely used in France (and in clinical trials in the United States)for the prophylactic treatment of angina pectoris. In 24 patients with thiscomplication, the marked slowing of motor nerve conduction velocity and theelectromyographic changes imply mainly a demyelinating disorder. Improvement wasnoted with cessation of therapy. In a few cases the presence of active denervationsignified a poor prognosis, with only slight improvement. The underlying mechanismcausing the neuropathy is not yet fully known, although some evidence indicates thatit may be a lipid storage process.
220563	CID	Perhexiline maleate	demyelinating disorder
220563	CID	Perhexiline maleate	peripheral neuropathy

137340|t|Effect of humoral modulators of morphine-induced increase in locomotor activity ofmice.The effect of humoral modulators on the morphine-induced increase in locomotoractivity of mice was studied. The subcutaneous administration of 10 mg/kg ofmorphine-HC1 produced a marked increase in locomotor activity in mice. Themorphine-induced hyperactivity was potentiated by scopolamine and attenuated byphysostigmine. In contrast, both methscopolamine and neostigmine, which do notpenetrate the blood-brain barrier, had no effect on the hyperactivity produced bymorphine. Pretreatment of mice with alpha-methyltyrosine (20 mg/kg i.p., one hour),an inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase, significantly decreased theactivity-increasing effects of morphine. On the other hand, pretreatment withp-chlorophenylalamine (3 X 320 mg/kg i.p., 24 hr), a serotonin depletor, caused nosignificant change in the hyperactivity. The study suggests that theactivity-increasing effects of morphine are mediated by the release ofcatecholamines from adrenergic neurons in the brain. And the results are consistentwith the hypothesis that morphine acts by retarding the release of acetylcholine atsome central cholinergic synapses. It is also suggested from collected evidence thatthe activity-increasing effects of morphine in mice are mediated by mechanismsdifferent from those which mediate the activity-increasing effects of morphine inrats.
137340	CID	scopolamine	increase in locomotor activity
137340	CID	morphine	increase in locomotor activity

9931093|t|Mechanisms of FK 506-induced hypertension in the rat.-Tacrolimus (FK 506) is a powerful, widely used immunosuppressant. The clinicalutility of FK 506 is complicated by substantial hypertension and nephrotoxicity. Toclarify the mechanisms of FK 506-induced hypertension, we studied the chroniceffects of FK 506 on the synthesis of endothelin-1 (ET-1), the expression of mRNA ofET-1 and endothelin-converting enzyme-1 (ECE-1), the endothelial nitric oxidesynthase (eNOS) activity, and the expression of mRNA of eNOS and C-type natriureticpeptide (CNP) in rat blood vessels. In addition, the effect of the specificendothelin type A receptor antagonist FR 139317 on FK 506-induced hypertension inrats was studied. FK 506, 5 mg. kg-1. d-1 given for 4 weeks, elevated blood pressurefrom 102+/-13 to 152+/-15 mm Hg and increased the synthesis of ET-1 and the levelsof ET-1 mRNA in the mesenteric artery (240% and 230%, respectively). Little changewas observed in the expression of ECE-1 mRNA and CNP mRNA. FK 506 decreased eNOSactivity and the levels of eNOS mRNA in the aorta (48% and 55%, respectively). Theadministration of FR 139317 (10 mg. kg-1. d-1) prevented FK 506-induced hypertensionin rats. These results indicate that FK 506 may increase blood pressure not only byincreasing ET-1 production but also by decreasing NO synthesis in the vasculature.
9931093	CID	FK 506	hypertension

20633755|t|Suxamethonium induced prolonged apnea in a patient receiving electroconvulsivetherapy.Suxamethonium causes prolonged apnea in patients in whom pseudocholinesteraseenzyme gets deactivated by organophosphorus (OP) poisons. Here, we present a similarincident in a severely depressed patient who received electroconvulsive therapy(ECT). Prolonged apnea in our case ensued because the information about suicidalattempt by OP compound was concealed from the treating team.
20633755	CID	organophosphorus (OP) poisons	apnea
20633755	CID	Suxamethonium	apnea

20067456|t|The effects of the adjunctive bupropion on male sexual dysfunction induced by aselective serotonin reuptake inhibitor: a double-blind placebo-controlled andrandomized study.OBJECTIVE: To determine the safety and efficacy of adjunctive bupropionsustained-release (SR) on male sexual dysfunction (SD) induced by a selectiveserotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), as SD is a common side-effect of SSRIs and themost effective treatments have yet to be determined. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Therandomized sample consisted of 234 euthymic men who were receiving some type ofSSRI. The men were randomly assigned to bupropion SR (150 mg twice daily, 117) orplacebo (twice daily, 117) for 12 weeks. Efficacy was evaluated using the ClinicalGlobal Impression-Sexual Function (CGI-SF; the primary outcome measure), theInternational Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), Arizona Sexual Experience Scale(ASEX), and Erectile Dysfunction Inventory of Treatment Satisfaction (EDITS)(secondary outcome measures). Participants were followed biweekly during studyperiod. RESULTS: After 12 weeks of treatment, the mean (sd) scores for CGI-SF weresignificantly lower, i.e. better, in patients on bupropion SR, at 2.4 (1.2), than inthe placebo group, at 3.9 (1.1) (P= 0.01). Men who received bupropion had asignificant increase in the total IIEF score (54.4% vs 1.2%; P= 0.003), and in thefive different domains of the IIEF. Total ASEX scores were significantly lower, i.e.better, among men who received bupropion than placebo, at 15.5 (4.3) vs 21.5 (4.7)(P= 0.002). The EDITS scores were 67.4 (10.2) for the bupropion and 36.3 (11.7) forthe placebo group (P= 0.001). The ASEX score and CGI-SF score were correlated (P=0.003). In linear regression analyses the CGI-SF score was not affectedsignificantly by the duration of SD, type of SSRI used and age. CONCLUSIONS:Bupropion is an effective treatment for male SD induced by SSRIs. These resultsprovide empirical support for conducting a further study of bupropion.
20067456	CID	selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor	Erectile Dysfunction

18464113|t|Lamivudine for the prevention of hepatitis B virus reactivation in hepatitis-Bsurface antigen (HBSAG) seropositive cancer patients undergoing cytotoxicchemotherapy.Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is one of the major causes of chronic liver diseaseworldwide. Cancer patients who are chronic carriers of HBV have a higher hepaticcomplication rate while receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy (CT) and this has mainlybeen attributed to HBV reactivation. In this study, cancer patients who have solidand hematological malignancies with chronic HBV infection received the antiviralagent lamivudine prior and during CT compared with historical control group who didnot receive lamivudine. The objectives were to assess the efficacy of lamivudine inreducing the incidence of HBV reactivation, and diminishing morbidity and mortalityduring CT. Two groups were compared in this study. The prophylactic lamivudin groupconsisted of 37 patients who received prophylactic lamivudine treatment. Thehistorical controls consisted of 50 consecutive patients who underwent CT withoutprophylactic lamivudine. They were followed up during and for 8 weeks after CT. Theoutcomes were compared for both groups. Of our control group (n= 50), 21 patients(42%) were established hepatitis. Twelve (24%) of them were evaluated as severehepatitis. In the prophylactic lamivudine group severe hepatitis were observed onlyin 1 patient (2.7%) of 37 patients (p < 0.006). Comparison of the mean ALT valuesrevealed significantly higher mean alanine aminotransferase (ALT) values in thecontrol group than the prophylactic lamivudine group; 154:64 (p < 0.32). Ourstudy suggests that prophylactic lamivudine significantly decreases the incidence ofHBV reactivation and overall morbidity in cancer patients during and afterimmunosuppressive therapy. Further studies are needed to determine the mostappropriate nucleoside or nucleotide analogue for antiviral prophylaxis during CTand the optimal duration of administration after completion of CT.
18464113	CID	hepatitis-B surface antigen	hepatitis B

18308784|t|Ginsenoside Rg1 restores the impairment of learning induced by chronic morphineadministration in rats.Rg1, as a ginsenoside extracted from Panax ginseng, could ameliorate spatiallearning impairment. Previous studies have demonstrated that Rg1 might be a usefulagent for the prevention and treatment of the adverse effects of morphine. The aimof this study was to investigate the effect of Rg1 on learning impairment by chronicmorphine administration and the mechanism responsible for this effect. Male ratswere subcutaneously injected with morphine (10 mg/kg) twice a day at 12 hourintervals for 10 days, and Rg1 (30 mg/kg) was intraperitoneally injected 2 hoursafter the second injection of morphine once a day for 10 days. Spatial learningcapacity was assessed in the Morris water maze. The results showed that rats treatedwith Morphine/Rg1 decreased escape latency and increased the time spent in platformquadrant and entering frequency. By implantation of electrodes andelectrophysiological recording in vivo, the results showed that Rg1 restored thelong-term potentiation (LTP) impaired by morphine in both freely moving andanaesthetised rats. The electrophysiological recording in vitro showed that Rg1restored the LTP in slices from the rats treated with morphine, but not changed LTPin the slices from normal saline- or morphine/Rg1-treated rats; this restorationcould be inhibited by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK801. Weconclude that Rg1 may significantly improve the spatial learning capacity impairedby chonic morphine administration and restore the morphine-inhibited LTP. Thiseffect is NMDA receptor dependent.
18308784	CID	morphine	impairment of learning

17931375|t|A study on the effect of the duration of subcutaneous heparin injection onbruising and pain.AIM: This study was carried out to determine the effect of injection duration onbruising and pain following the administration of the subcutaneous injection ofheparin. BACKGROUND: Although different methods to prevent bruising and painfollowing the subcutaneous injection of heparin have been widely studied anddescribed, the effect of injection duration on the occurrence of bruising and painis little documented. DESIGN: This study was designed as within-subject,quasi-experimental research. METHOD: The sample for the study consisted of 50patients to whom subcutaneous heparin was administered. Heparin was injected over 10seconds on the right abdominal site and 30 seconds on the left abdominal site.Injections areas were assessed for the presence of bruising at 48 and 72 hours aftereach injection. Dimensions of the bruising on the heparin applied areas weremeasured using transparent millimetric measuring paper. The visual analog scale(VAS) was used to measure pain intensity and a stop-watch was used to time the painperiod. Data were analysed using chi-square test, Mann-Whitney U, Wilcoxon signedranks tests and correlation. RESULTS: The percentage of bruising occurrence was 64%with the injection of 10 seconds duration and 42% in the 30-second injection. It wasdetermined that the size of the bruising was smaller in the 30-second injection.Pain intensity and pain period were statistically significantly lower for the30-second injection than for the 10-second injection. CONCLUSIONS: It was determinedthat injection duration had an effect on bruising and pain following thesubcutaneous administration of heparin. This study should be repeated on a largersample. RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: When administering subcutaneous heparininjections, it is important to extend the duration of the injection.
17931375	CID	heparin	pain
17931375	CID	heparin	bruising

15649445|t|Acute reserpine and subchronic haloperidol treatments change synaptosomal brainglutamate uptake and elicit orofacial dyskinesia in rats.Reserpine- and haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia are putative animal modelsof tardive dyskinesia (TD) whose pathophysiology has been related to free radicalgeneration and oxidative stress. In the present study, the authors induced orofacialdyskinesia by acute reserpine and subchronic haloperidol administration to rats.Reserpine injection (one dose of 1 mg/kg s.c.) every other day for 3 days caused asignificant increase in vacuous chewing, tongue protrusion and duration of facialtwitching, compared to the control. Haloperidol administration (one dose of 12 mg/kgonce a week s.c.) for 4 weeks caused an increase in vacuous chewing, tongueprotrusion and duration of facial twitching observed in four weekly evaluations.After the treatments and behavioral observation, glutamate uptake by segments of thebrain was analyzed. A decreased glutamate uptake was observed in the subcorticalparts of animals treated with reserpine and haloperidol, compared to the control.Importantly, a decrease in glutamate uptake correlates negatively with an increasein the incidence of orofacial diskinesia. These results indicate that early changesin glutamate transport may be related to the development of vacuous chewingmovements in rats.
15649445	CID	haloperidol	orofacial dyskinesia
15649445	CID	reserpine	orofacial dyskinesia

14698717|t|Acute psychosis due to treatment with phenytoin in a nonepileptic patient.The development of psychosis related to antiepileptic drug treatment is usuallyattributed to the interaction between the epileptic brain substratum and theantiepileptic drugs. The case of a nonepileptic patient who developed psychosisfollowing phenytoin treatment for trigeminal neuralgia is described. This casesuggests that the psychotic symptoms that occur following phenytoin treatment insome epileptic patients may be the direct result of medication, unrelated toseizures.
14698717	CID	phenytoin	Acute psychosis

12617329|t|The effect of treatment with gum Arabic on gentamicin nephrotoxicity in rats: apreliminary study.In the present work we assessed the effect of treatment of rats with gum Arabic onacute renal failure induced by gentamicin (GM) nephrotoxicity. Rats were treatedwith the vehicle (2 mL/kg of distilled water and 5% w/v cellulose, 10 days), gumArabic (2 mL/kg of a 10% w/v aqueous suspension of gum Arabic powder, orally for 10days), or gum Arabic concomitantly with GM (80mg/kg/day intramuscularly, during thelast six days of the treatment period). Nephrotoxicity was assessed by measuring theconcentrations of creatinine and urea in the plasma and reduced glutathione (GSH) inthe kidney cortex, and by light microscopic examination of kidney sections. Theresults indicated that concomitant treatment with gum Arabic and GM significantlyincreased creatinine and urea by about 183 and 239%, respectively (compared to 432and 346%, respectively, in rats treated with cellulose and GM), and decreased thatof cortical GSH by 21% (compared to 27% in the cellulose plus GM group) TheGM-induced proximal tubular necrosis appeared to be slightly less severe in ratsgiven GM together with gum Arabic than in those given GM and cellulose. It could beinferred that gum Arabic treatment has induced a modest amelioration of some of thehistological and biochemical indices of GM nephrotoxicity. Further work is warrantedon the effect of the treatments on renal functional aspects in models of chronicrenal failure, and on the mechanism(s) involved.
12617329	CID	gentamicin	acute renal failure
12617329	CID	gum Arabic	acute renal failure

12523465|t|Visual hallucinations associated with zonisamide.Zonisamide is a broad-spectrum antiepileptic drug used to treat various types ofseizures. Although visual hallucinations have not been reported as an adverse effectof this agent, we describe three patients who experienced complex visualhallucinations and altered mental status after zonisamide treatment was begun or itsdosage increased. All three had been diagnosed earlier with epilepsy, and theirelectroencephalogram (EEG) findings were abnormal. During monitoring, visualhallucinations did not correlate with EEG readings, nor did video recording captureany of the described events. None of the patients had experienced visualhallucinations before this event. The only recent change in their treatment was theintroduction or increased dosage of zonisamide. With either discontinuation ordecreased dosage of the drug the symptoms disappeared and did not recur. Furtherobservations and reports will help clarify this adverse effect. Until then,clinicians need to be aware of this possible complication associated withzonisamide.
12523465	CID	zonisamide	Visual hallucinations

11961407|t|GLEPP1 receptor tyrosine phosphatase (Ptpro) in rat PAN nephrosis. A marker ofacute podocyte injury.Glomerular epithelial protein 1 (GLEPP1) is a podocyte receptor membrane proteintyrosine phosphatase located on the apical cell membrane of visceral glomerularepithelial cell and foot processes. This receptor plays a role in regulating thestructure and function of podocyte foot process. To better understand the utility ofGLEPP1 as a marker of glomerular injury, the amount and distribution of GLEPP1protein and mRNA were examined by immunohistochemistry, Western blot and RNaseprotection assay in a model of podocyte injury in the rat. Puromycin aminonucleosidenephrosis was induced by single intraperitoneal injection of puromycinaminonucleoside (PAN, 20 mg/100g BW). Tissues were analyzed at 0, 5, 7, 11, 21, 45,80 and 126 days after PAN injection so as to include both the acute phase ofproteinuria associated with foot process effacement (days 5-11) and the chronicphase of proteinuria associated with glomerulosclerosis (days 45-126). At day 5,GLEPP1 protein and mRNA were reduced from the normal range (265.2 +/- 79.6 x 10(6)moles/glomerulus and 100%) to 15% of normal (41.8 +/- 4.8 x 10(6) moles/glomerulus,p < 0.005). This occurred in association with an increase in urinary proteincontent from 1.8 +/- 1 to 99.0 +/- 61 mg/day (p < 0.001). In contrast,podocalyxin did not change significantly at this time. By day 11, GLEPP1 protein andmRNA had begun to return towards baseline. By day 45-126, at a time when glomerularscarring was present, GLEPP1 was absent from glomerulosclerotic areas although thetotal glomerular content of GLEPP1 was not different from normal. We conclude thatGLEPP1 expression, unlike podocalyxin, reflects podocyte injury induced by PAN.GLEPP1 expression may be a useful marker of podocyte injury.
11961407	CID	PAN	proteinuria
11961407	CID	PAN	nephrosis

9401499|t|Ticlopidine-induced aplastic anemia: report of three Chinese patients and reviewof the literature.In this study, three Chinese patients with ticlopidine-induced aplastic anemiawere reported and another 13 patients in the English literature were reviewed. Weattempted to find underlying similarities, evaluate the risk factors, and identifyappropriate treatment for this complication. All but one of the patients were over60 years old, and the 6 who died were all older than 65. Therefore, old age may be arisk factor for developing this complication. Agranulocytosis occurred 3-20 weeksafter initiation of ticlopidine, so frequent examination of white cell count duringtreatment is recommended. There seemed to be no direct correlation between the doseor duration used and the severity of bone marrow suppression. Treatment forticlopidine-induced aplastic anemia with colony-stimulating factors seemed to havelittle effect. The fact that 5 of the 6 patients who received concurrent calciumchannel blockers died, should alert clinicians to be more cautious when using thesetwo drugs simultaneously.
9401499	CID	Ticlopidine	aplastic anemia
9401499	CID	Ticlopidine	Agranulocytosis

2273650|t|Facilitation of memory retrieval by pre-test morphine and its state dependency inthe step-through type passive avoidance learning test in mice.Amnesia produced by scopolamine and cycloheximide were reversed by morphine given30 min before the test trial (pre-test), and pre-test morphine also facilitated thememory retrieval in the animals administered naloxone during the training trial.Similarly, pre-test scopolamine partially reversed the scopolamine-induced amnesia,but not significantly; and pre-test cycloheximide failed to reverse thecycloheximide-induced amnesia. These results suggest that the facilitation of memoryretrieval by pre-test morphine might be the direct action of morphine rather than astate dependent effect.
2273650	CID	scopolamine	Amnesia
2273650	CID	cycloheximide	Amnesia

10683478|t|Test conditions influence the response to a drug challenge in rodents.These studies were conducted to examine the differential response to a drugchallenge under varied experimental test conditions routinely employed to studydrug-induced behavioral and neurophysiological responses in rodents. Apomorphine, anonselective dopamine agonist, was selected due to its biphasic behavioral effects,its ability to induce hypothermia, and to produce distinct changes to dopamineturnover in the rodent brain. From such experiments there is evidence thatcharacterization and detection of apomorphine-induced activity in rodents criticallydepends upon the test conditions employed. In rats, detection of apomorphine-inducedhyperactivity was facilitated by a period of acclimatization to the test conditions.Moreover, test conditions can impact upon other physiological responses toapomorphine such as drug-induced hypothermia. In mice, apomorphine producedqualitatively different responses under novel conditions when compared to thosebehaviors elicited in the home test cage. Drug-induced gross activity counts wereincreased in the novel exploratory box only, while measures of stereotypic behaviorwere similar in both. By contrast, apomorphine-induced locomotion was more prominentin the novel exploratory box. Dopamine turnover ratios (DOPAC:DA and HVA:DA) werefound to be lower in those animals exposed to the exploratory box when compared totheir home cage counterparts. However, apomorphine-induced reductions in striataldopamine turnover were detected in both novel and home cage environments. Theimplications of these findings are discussed with particular emphasis uponconducting psychopharmacological challenge tests in rodents.
10683478	CID	Apomorphine	hypothermia
10683478	CID	Apomorphine	hyperactivity

